PROPOSAL TO SUBMIT A TENDER
CONTENTS
1.

Milline on protsess?

Contracting authority:
SA Tallinna Kultuurikatel

2. Mida hangitakse?

Type of procurement:

3. Millised nõuded kehtivad

Open procedure

pakkumusele?

Name of the public procurement:

4. Kuidas kvalifitseeruda?

CRM Software

5. Milline pakkuja kõrvaldatakse?

Public procurement reference number:

6. Kuidas hankija pakkumused avab?

302432

7. Millal võib hankija kõik pakkumused

Type of contract:

tagasi lükata?
8. Millal võib hankija hankemenetluse
kehtetuks tunnistada?

Procurement contract
Expected contract period:
48 months

9. Milline pakkumus võidab?

Estimated contract value:

10. Kuidas sõlmitakse leping?

N/A

11. Kuidas toimub infovahetus?

Deadline for submission and opening of tenders:
According to the Procurement Notice

LISAD:

Place of submission and opening of tenders:

PEE Annex 1 – Technical Specification

Procurement Regsister (riigihanked.riik.ee)

with Evaluation Criteria and Principal

Period of validity of the tender:

Contract Terms

3 months
Person responsible for public procurement:
Kristiina Kütt

ATTENTION!
In preparing the procurement documents of the public procurement (hereinafter also the "Procurement
Documents"), the contracting authority has proceeded from the Public Procurement Act (hereinafter referred
to as the PPA), the procedure for conducting procurements of the contracting authority and the conditions
set out in the Procurement Documents.
The Procurement Documents contain all relevant documents referred to in the law, including:
● This call for tenders, together with all annexes;
● The information published in the Public Procurement Register (hereinafter referred to as the Register)
in the procurement procedure, including the procurement notice (hereinafter referred to as the
"Procurement Notice"), the grounds for exclusion (incl. the form of the ’Single Procurement
Document’), the qualification conditions, the conditions of compliance, the evaluation criteria
(including the description of the evaluation methodology) and all information and documents sent
before the deadline for the submission of tenders, which have amended, explained or specified the
requirements of the Procurement Documents.
(PPA § 4 point 17)

Pursuant to the law, the contracting authority may amend the Contract Notice and/or the Procurement
Documents before the deadline for submission of tenders.
(PPA § 81 and 82)

1

1. WHAT IS THE PROCESS?

2

2. WHAT IS PROCURED?
2.1.

Subject-matter of the contract. The aim of the procurement is to procure a modern CRM (Customer
Relationship Management) software for the Tallinna Kultuurikatel, which supports daily sales and
project work, planning and management of events in a calendar view, management of offers and
invoices, and reporting. The software must enable the management of the events of all the event
centres of the Kultuurikatel in one software and manage calendars, sales activities and customer data
by the departments of the institution, which are the Tallinna Kultuurikatel, the Mere Kultuurikeskus
and the Salme Kultuurikeskus.

2.2.

Technical description. The technical description of the object of the contract is provided in PEE Annex
1.

2.3.

Contract. The conditions for performance of the contract are set out in PEE Annex 1 and in the
composition of the tender.

2.4.

Distribution. The procurement is not divided into lots, as it is essentially one indivisible object of the
procurement.

3. WHAT REQUIREMENTS APPLY TO THE TENDER?
PREPARATION OF THE TENDER
3.1.

Terms and conditions of the tender. The tender must comply with the conditions set out in the
Procurement Documents. The data provided in the tender must be presented in a way that allows the
contracting authority to verify the compliance of the tender with the conditions set out in the
Procurement Document.

3.2.

Tenderer Confirmation. By submitting a tender, the tenderer confirms the transposition of all the
conditions set out in the Procurement Documents.

3.3.

Inconsistencies in the Procurement Documents. If the tenderer discovers errors, contradictions,
ambiguities or ambiguity in the Procurement Documents during the preparation of the tender, they
are advised to immediately notify the contracting authority through the register and ask a question
about it.

3.4.

Inconsistencies in forms. The tenderer may need to submit the value of the tender both on the form
in the Register and on the form prepared by the contracting authority. If the data submitted by the
tenderer are different on these forms, the contracting authority shall evaluate the tender on the basis
of the costs presented on the form prepared by the contracting authority.

3.5.

Exclusion of misleading and conditional tenders. The tender must not be misleading in any way. The
Tenderer may not make any changes, reservations or set its own conditions regarding the
requirements set out in the Procurement Documents. Submission of conditional bids is not allowed.

3.6.

Alternative solutions. Submission of alternative solutions is not allowed.

3.7.

Document format. Tender documents must be submitted in the commonly used document format
(.pdf; .txt; .rtf; .odt and MS Office formats).

3.8.

Capacity limit. The size of one uploaded file in the Registry may not exceed 100 MB. The total size of
the tender documents must not exceed 300MB.

3.9.

Costs and risks. The interested party or tenderer bears the full costs and risks associated with
participating in the procurement procedure, including the possibility of force majeure.

SUBMISSION OF A TENDER
3.10.

Right to submit tenders. The contracting authority restricts the circle of tenderers by allowing only
undertakings from the countries specified in § 3(2) of the PPA to participate in this public procurement,
including as a person on whose resources the tenderer relies on § 103(1) of the PPA.

3

3.11.

Person submitting the tender. The tender must be submitted by the tenderer's statutory or
authorised representative. If the tender is submitted by a person who is not entered on the printout of
the registry card of the Estonian Commercial Register as a person who has the legal right of
representation of the tenderer, the tenderer must, at the request of the contracting authority, submit
a power of attorney of the legal representative(s) to represent the tenderer.

3.12.

Foreign Provider. If the tenderer is registered in a foreign country, the tenderer must submit a
certificate of the existence of the right of representation at the request of the contracting authority.

3.13.

Registry errors. The Contracting Authority shall not be liable for any delays, failures or interruptions
caused by circumstances beyond the control of the Contracting Authority in the Register, such as force
majeure, power outages, disturbances in the telephone or internet connection of the tenderer or the
contracting authority, or in the operation of other electronic devices and devices, including software.
The Contracting Authority shall not be liable for any damages or loss of profit caused by the use or
non-use of the Register.

COMPLIANCE OF THE TENDER
3.14.

Compliance conditions. The conditions of compliance can be found in the Register under the basic
data of the procurement procedure.

3.15.

Declaration of conformity. The Contracting Authority shall declare the tender compliant if it complies
with the requirements set out in the Procurement Documents.

4. HOW TO QUALIFY?
4.1.

Conditions. If available, the qualification criteria can be found in the Register under the basic data of
the procurement procedure, in the subsection Grounds for exclusion and qualification criteria.

4.2.

Single Procurement Document. The tenderer submits a Single Procurement Document with the
tender, in which it confirms compliance with the qualification criteria and submits the required data.
Documents certifying qualification do not have to be submitted with the tender.

4.3.

Qualification. The Contracting Authority shall qualify the successful tenderer whose qualification
meets the tenderer qualification criteria set out in the Procurement Documents. The successful
tenderer must submit the evidence confirming the data provided in the procurement passport within
5 working days of receipt of the respective claim.
(PPA § 104 (9))

4.4.

Reliance on the resources of another undertaking. The tenderer may prove its compliance with the
requirements for economic and financial standing on the basis of the funds of another undertaking.
In such a case, the tenderer and the other economic operator must be jointly responsible for the
proper performance of the contract.

5. WHICH PROVIDER WILL BE EXCLUDED?
5.1.

Grounds for exclusion. The grounds for exclusion of the tenderer are published in the Register under
the basic data of the procurement procedure, in the subsection Grounds for exclusion and
qualification criteria.

5.2.

Single Procurement Document. The tenderer submits a Single Procurement Document with the
tender, in which it confirms the absence of grounds for exclusion and submits the required data.
Supporting documents do not need to be submitted with the tender.

5.3.

Decision to exclude. Upon exclusion of a tenderer from the procurement procedure, the contracting
authority shall make a reasoned written decision to that effect. The eliminated tenderer will not
participate in further public procurement.

6. HOW A CONTRACTING AUTHORITY OPENS TENDERS?
6.1.

Open. The contracting authority opens the tenders electronically in the Register.

6.2.

Non-public. The opening of tenders is not public. After the opening of the tenders, the names and
registry codes of the tenderers, in the absence of a registry code, any other identifier or personal
4

identification code enabling the identification of the tenderer, or in the absence of a personal
identification code, the date of birth and the costs of the tenders submitted, including the partial costs
of the tender, if they are taken into account in the evaluation of tenders, and other numerical indicators
characterising the tender that meet the criteria for evaluating tenders shall be published in the
Register.

7. WHEN CAN A CONTRACTING AUTHORITY REJECT ALL TENDERS?
7.1.

Cost of tenders. The contracting authority may reject all tenders if the value of all tenders or tenders
found to be compliant exceeds the value of the contract.
(PPA § 116 (1) point 1)

7.2.

Insufficient competition. The contracting authority may reject all tenders if insufficient competition
is ensured. This means that if only two or fewer tenders are received for the procurement or if only one
tender is declared compliant.

7.3.

The process of rejecting all tenders. The contracting authority rejects all tenders by a written
decision. The contracting authority must justify its decision.

8. WHEN CAN THE CONTRACTING AUTHORITY REVOKE THE PROCUREMENT
PROCEDURE?
8.1.

Justified need. The contracting authority has the right to declare the procurement procedure invalid
if justified. The reasonable need of the contracting authority is, for example, if:

8.1.1.

the contracting authority needs to significantly change the subject matter of the contract;

8.1.2.

the conditions on which the procurement procedure was based have changed significantly
and therefore the award of the contract is unnecessary or impossible;

8.1.3.

inconsistencies have emerged which cannot be remedied and therefore the proceedings
cannot be brought to a lawful conclusion.

8.2.

The process of invalidating the procurement procedure. The contracting authority shall declare
the procurement procedure invalid by a written decision. The decision must be reasoned.

9. WHICH TENDER WINS?
9.1.

Evaluation criteria. The contracting authority shall evaluate the tenders in accordance with the
evaluation criteria set out in the Register and specified in PEE Annex 1.

9.2.

Successful tender. The tender that scores the most points in all the evaluation criteria will be declared
successful.

9.3.

Equal tenders. If the tenders that received the most value points are equal in terms of the number of
value points, the successful tender will be selected by drawing lots. The contracting authority
determines the procedure, time and place of the drawing of lots. On behalf of the tenderer, the
tenderer's statutory or authorised representative shall participate in the drawing of lots.

10.

HOW THE CONTRACT IS CONCLUDED?

10.1.

Contract. The contract will be awarded to one of the successful tenderers. The contract will be
concluded on the basis of the principles set out in PEE Annex 1 and the standard terms and conditions
set out in the composition of the successful tenderer's tender.

10.2.

Signing the contract. The contract will be signed digitally. The tenderer must sign the contract and
return it signed by the tenderer to the contracting authority within 5 working days.

10.3.

Signing a contract in any other form. If it is not possible to sign the contract digitally, the contracting
authority shall send two copies of the contract signed by the contracting authority to the tenderer
5

who submitted the successful tender. The contract is deemed to have been received 3 calendar days
after it was posted. The tenderer who submitted a tender that has been declared successful must
return one signed copy of the contract to the contracting authority within 10 calendar days from the
date of receipt of the contract. If necessary, the contracting authority may extend the deadline for the
return of the contract.
10.4.

ATTENTION! If the successful tenderer fails to comply with the deadline for signing and fails to return
the contract signed by the successful tenderer by the deadline, the contracting authority has the right
to consider the tender withdrawn and to start the re-evaluation of all other tenders. In addition, the
contracting authority has the right to demand compensation for damage from a tenderer who has
not complied with the signing requirement. The contracting authority has the same right if the
successful tenderer fails to perform the contract entered into by giving acceptance within the
specified deadline for reasons arising from itself.
(PPA § 119)

11. HOW INFORMATION IS EXCHANGED?
IF THE TENDERER WANTS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION:

IF THE CONTRACTING AUTHORITY WANTS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:

11.1. Explanations about the content of the
contract notice and the Procurement
Documents can be obtained by contacting
the contracting authority in writing via the
Public Procurement Register. The request
can be submitted on the communication
worksheet.

11.4. The contracting authority may require
additional documents from the tenderer.
The purpose of such an inquiry is to verify
the absence of grounds for exclusion, the
conformity of the qualification or the
tender. The Contracting Authority submits
the claim via the Information Exchange
page of the Register.

11.2. The contracting authority will respond to the
questions within 3 working days from the
request for an explanation. The responses will
be added to the communication worksheet
of the Public Procurement Register.

11.5. Depending on the content of the question,
the deadline for answering is 3 or 5 working
days.
(PPA § 46 (4), 104 (9), § 115 (1))

11.6. The contracting authority may extend the
deadline for replying – either on its own
initiative or on the basis of a reasoned
application by the tenderer.

11.3. ATTENTION! It is important to submit the
request for explanation by the deadline, i.e. at
least 6 working days before the deadline for
submission of tenders. If the request for
explanation is received later, the contracting
authority is not obliged to respond to the
request pursuant to the law.
(PPA § 46)

6

