PEE Annex 1 – Technical Specification with Evaluation Criteria and
Principal Contract Terms
1. Aim of the procurement
1.1. The aim of the procurement is to procure a modern CRM (Customer Relationship
Management) software for the Tallinn Kultuurikatel, which supports daily sales and
project work, planning and managing events in a calendar view, managing offers and
invoices, and reporting.
1.2. The software must enable the management of the events of all the event centers of
the Kultuurikatel in one software and manage calendars, sales activities and
customer data by the departments of the institution, which are the Tallinn
Kultuurikatel, the Mere Kultuurikeskus and the Salme Kultuurikeskus.
1.3. The software must support an all-in-one integrated next-to-end solution:
1.3.1.CRM customer communication that is integrated with projects and finances, i.e.
a 360-degree view of customers, including contact information, communication
history, projects and purchase invoices;
1.3.2.Sales Pipeline;
1.3.3.Integrated calendar and resource scheduling – built-in to manage the following
resources: facilities, people, tasks, invoices, quotes, rental orders, projects, time
tracking. Events in the calendar can be linked to contact offers, tasks, tasks,
invoices, and projects. Can be synced with external calendars such as Google
Calendar.
1.3.4.Creating quotes that can be created and converted into contracts and invoices;
1.3.5.Invoice management and invoicing directly in the system. It is possible to create
invoices for logged time or from a quote. Compatible with Finbite.
1.3.6.Time tracking – takes into account project and activity hours;
1.3.7.Project management – tasks, calendars, resources, time and attendance. Covers
the entire project lifecycle, from quoting and planning to execution and
invoicing. Features also include Gantt charts, resource scheduling, and real-time
progress tracking.
1.4. The system must also allow for:
1.4.1.Separate workflow and data management for each division;
1.4.2.A unified overview across all event hub events and resources;
1.4.3.use of the same system by different users according to their rights and
subdivisions;
1.4.4.Calendar view to schedule events and resources across all items;
1.4.5.Tracking sales, project, and billing processes at the level of all units.

1

2. Object and volume of the procurement contract
2.1. Within the framework of the procurement, CRM and sales software usage licenses
will be procured for 20-35 users, along with the following services:
2.1.1.Setting up and adapting the system according to work processes;
2.1.2.User setup and comprehensive training;
2.1.3.import of existing data (the entire 10-year history of the current system,
integrated calendar, contacts, offers, projects, invoices) within no more than 10
working days after the conclusion of the contract (the Kultuurikatel and Salme
use Scoro, the Mere does not have CRM software);
2.1.4.Software updates and support.

3. Formal and substantive requirements for the offer
3.1. The tender must be submitted to the Public Procurement Register. The content and
form requirements of the tender can be found on the page of the conditions of
compliance in the Public Procurement Register.
3.2. The contracting authority shall declare the tender compliant if it complies with the
conditions set out in this technical specification and other basic documents of public
procurement. The contracting authority shall reject the tender if it does not comply
with the conditions set out in the source documents of the public procurement, if the
tenderer fails to submit the explanations requested by the contracting authority by
the deadline or if it is not possible to unambiguously assess the compliance of the
tender with the conditions set out in the source documents of the public
procurement on the basis of the tenderer's explanations. The contracting authority
may declare the tender compliant if there are no substantive deviations from the
conditions specified in the source documents of the public procurement. A rejected
tender is not subject to evaluation.

4. Technical and functional requirements
Functional requirement
4.1. CRM customer communication is
integrated with projects and
finances, i.e. a 360-degree view of
customers, including contact
information, communication
history, projects and purchase
invoices;
4.2. The pipeline must be customizable
and allow you to track deal stages,
activities, and forecasts.
4.3. The calendar must be manageable
and have rooms, employees, tasks,
quotes, rental orders, and projects
associated with the calendar, and
the calendar must be

Explanation / Purpose
Provides a complete view of client and
project data and reduces manual work.

Supports sales management and more
accurate forecasts.
Provides a unified planning view.

2

synchronizable with Google
Calendar and Outlook.
4.4. The system must enable the
preparation of offers, their
conversion into contracts and the
generation of invoices based on
the offer or logged time.
4.5. The software must be compatible
with Finbite and other e-invoicing
services.
4.6. The system must support working
time tracking and connection to
projects.
4.7. The project management module
must include Gantt charts,
resource planning, and real-time
tracking of project processes.
Enables comprehensive project
management and monitoring
throughout the lifecycle.
4.8. The system must enable the
separation of data and workflows
by sub-units, including the Tallinn
Kultuurikatel, the Mere
Kultuurikeskus and the Salme
Kultuurikeskus.
4.9. User access and rights must be
manageable on a role-by-role and
sub-unit basis.
4.10.
The calendar must be
viewed and managed across events
and resources in all divisions.
4.11.
The system must enable
reporting on sales, project and
billing processes at the level of the
sub-unit as well as the entire
institution.

Unified sales, contract, and billing
workflow in one system.

Enables automatic forwarding and receipt
of e-invoices.
Enables accurate cost and profitability
calculations.
Enables comprehensive project
management throughout the lifecycle.

Ensures operational autonomy for units
and a common data platform.

Ensures security and data protection.
Provides a consolidated view of the entire
organization for planning.
Supports management decisions based on
KPIs in one consolidated view.

5. Additional Functional Requirements
5.1. In addition to the general requirements above, the system must support the
following specific work processes of the event centre:
5.1.1.Resource-based calendar and time management (to-do);
5.1.2.Rental warehouse and creation of rental orders;
5.1.3.Price offers with product codes and price lists;
5.1.4.Manage sales invoices and prepayment invoices;
5.1.5.Sales pipeline, sales team, and sales activity reports;
5.1.6.Summary of work and detailed report (with time and project-based analysis);
5.1.7.Separate app for use on mobile phones (iOS and Android).
3

5.2. Other requirements
5.2.1.User support in Estonian
5.2.2.User interface in Estonian

6. Evaluation criteria
6.1. The contracting authority shall evaluate the tenders declared compliant on the
basis of the following criteria:
Criterion

Description

1. Cost - 60%

The cost of licenses is 12 months without VAT
(35 users are taken into account in the
evaluation)

2. Implementation and
transition costs – 20%

Set-up, training and data transfer costs
without VAT

3. User-friendliness and
suitability of the work process
– 20%

User interface logic, system intuitiveness, and
users' existing experience

6.2. Evaluation methodology
6.2.1. For the criteria "implementation and transition costs" and "cost", the tender
with the lowest value will receive the maximum number of points. Other tenders
will receive points by calculating the formula indicated on the relevant Public
Procurement Register tab.
6.2.2.The evaluation methodology for the criterion "User Convenience and Suitability
of the Work Process" is as follows:
Subcriterion/points
User-friendliness

10

5

0

The user environment
presented as a demo is
convenient for the user.
The user environment has
all the functionalities
required by the technical
specifications.
Description of the
environment
is detailed and
unambiguous. The demo
environment and
description provide a set
of the contracting
authority is satisfied that
the

The user
environment
presented as a
demo is
generally
suitable for the
user, but there
are some
inconveniences.
The description
of userfriendliness is
partly unclear
and/or
ambiguous.
Demo keskkond

The prerequisites
for receiving 5
points are not met.

4

the service provided
meets the expectations
set by the contracting
authority.
In order to ensure userfriendliness, the usual
principles of the field and
the activities of the
contracting authority in
accordance with the
statutes have been taken
into account.

Suitability of the
work process

In the demo environment,
the work process
corresponds to the
technical specifications
and the objectives of the
procurement. The work
process is also explained
in detail and
unambiguous, including
when and how the
activities are planned and
whether it is possible to
achieve the result on time.
The specifics of the
supplier have been taken
into account when
creating the demo
environment and
describing the work
processes.

ja Description as
a whole does
not convince the
contracting
authority that
the service fully
meets the
requirements
set out in the
procurement. In
order to ensure
user comfort,
the usual
principles of the
field have not
been applied.
The tenderer
has not taken
into account the
specifics of the
contracting
authority in
creating userfriendliness.
In a demo
environment,
the work
process is not
convenient.
The work
process itself
and/or its
description is
partial and/or
ambiguous. The
specifics of the
vendor have not
been taken into
account when
creating the
demo
environment
and work
processes.

The prerequisites
for receiving 5
points are not met.

6.3. The contracting authority will declare the tender that receives the most points as
successful.

5

7. Terms and conditions of the contract (in principle)
7.1. The contracting authority shall enter into a contract with the successful tenderer and
a data processing contract on the basis of the tenderer's standard terms and
conditions to the extent that it is not in conflict with the provisions of this chapter.
7.2. Duration of the contract: 48 months from the start of the system, with the possibility
of annual renewal. The contracting authority undertakes to notify of their wish to
extend the extension at least 30 days before the end of the billing period.
7.3. The contracting authority undertakes to order at least 20 user licenses (minimum
quantity).
7.4. The contracting authority pays for one user license according to the unit price
specified by the service provider in the offer.
7.5. The service provider has the right to increase the license fee once a calendar year
according to the change in the consumer price index (CPI), based on the percentage
of change in the Estonian consumer price index for the last 12 months published by
Statistics Estonia compared to the same period of the previous year.
7.6. The price correction is based on the last CPI indicator published before the price
change takes effect.
7.7. The service provider shall notify the contracting authority of the price increase at
least 60 (sixty) calendar days before the start of the new billing period when the
adjusted price is applied.
7.8. If the CPI change is negative, the royalty will not be automatically reduced unless the
parties agree to this in writing.
7.9. The service provider ensures the reliability of the system and technical support
throughout the validity of the contract.
7.10.
The contracting authority may cancel the contract if the system does not meet
the requirements or the service is not functional in the agreed volume.
7.11.
Data ownership and transfer
7.11.1. The data entered into the software by the customer belongs to the contracting
authority. Upon termination or expiration of the contract, the service provider
shall close the respective accounts and, unless otherwise agreed, delete their
contents within the term set out in the data processing agreement. The service
provider does not delete content that is required to be retained under applicable
law.
7.11.2. The service provider undertakes to make a copy of the content available to
the contracting authority within 30 days following the expiry or expiry of the
contract and the contracting authority undertakes to download it. If the
contracting authority is unable to download a copy of the content in accordance
with the procedure provided for in this clause, the contracting authority
undertakes to notify the service provider thereof within 10 days of becoming
aware of the obstacle. In such a case – provided that the content has not been
deleted in accordance with the data processing agreement – the service
provider undertakes to deliver the content to the contracting authority in a

6

generally accepted format by agreement of the parties. No additional fee may be
charged for the transmission of content.
7.12.
The parties and persons acting on their behalf are obliged to adhere to the
anti-corruption legislation in force in the Republic of Estonia.
7.12.1. The service provider is prohibited from entering into agreements with
persons acting on behalf of the contracting authority and with persons related
to them within the meaning of § 7 of the Anti-Corruption Act in connection with
the performance of the contract, giving them gifts or benefits in connection with
the performance of the contract that cannot be unambiguously understood as
an ordinary expression of courtesy within the meaning of § 4 of the AntiCorruption Act, or from placing them in a situation that may result in an actual
or apparent conflict of interests.
7.12.2. If the service provider organizes events within the framework of its business
activities to which the person(s) acting on behalf of the client in connection with
the performance of the contract are invited, the purpose of these events must
not be to influence persons related to the client and hosting such events must
remain within the framework of a customary courtesy statement.
7.12.3. The service provider shall implement measures to prevent corruption by
people acting on its behalf, its subcontractors or other third parties related to
the service provider in connection with the performance of this contract.
7.12.4. The service provider and the contracting authority, as well as persons acting
on their behalf, undertake to cooperate with each other in the implementation
of anti-corruption measures, including immediately informing each other of any
suspicions of a corruption case related to the performance of the contract.
7.12.5. The contracting authority has the right to cancel the contract if the service
provider violates anti-corruption legislation or has violated the anti-corruption
measures prescribed in the contract.

7

