APPROVED
by Eesti Energia
Management board
02.11.2020

Occupational health and safety requirements for the contractual partners
of Eesti Energia
Category
Scope

Valid from
Related Documents
Forms and information
system solutions
Owner
Documents losing
validity

Decision of the Management Board of the Eesti Energia AS
Eesti Energia AS and group companies that have been founded
based on the legislation of the Republic of Estonia (except
Elektrilevi OÜ and Enefit Outotec Technology OÜ)
From approval
Procurement procedure of Eesti Energia AS and companies of
the group

Risk management department
Occupational health and safety requirements for the contractual
partners of Eesti Energia. Approved by the Management Board
of the Eesti Energia AS
decision no 4, dated 23.01.2017

1. Purpose
1.1 The purpose of the document is to stipulate the requirements related to
occupational health and safety (hereafter “OHS”), which partners (hereafter
“contractual partners”) that are in a contractual relationship with companies that
belong to the Eesti Energia group (hereafter “Eesti Energia”, are olbiigated to be
guided by.
1.2 Eesti Energia informs the contractual partner of the OHS requirements,
established within Eesti Eenergia and demands from the contractual partner the
observance of the requirements, on the territory of Eesti Energia, as well as on
sites outside the territory of Eesti Energia, acting on which the contractual
partner has the obligation to fulfill the obligations arising from the contract signed
with Eesti Energia.
1.3 Eesti Energia performs cooperative work, in the field of occupational safety, with
the contractual partner, in the framework of which care is taken of the safety of
employees and whatever kind of third parties (hereafter jointly “persons”).
1.4 The way of thinking must be approached from, when fulfilling the contract signed
with Eesti Energia, according to which it is possible to prevent all accidents. The
purpose of applying the current requirements is to ensure persons an as safe as
possible work envirnment, work without accidents at work and without
occupational diseases, as well as avoid causing whatsoever kind of damage to
third parties.
2. OHS requirements
2.1 The contractual partner obligates to plan its activities, such that their realisation
does not endanger the life, health and environment of persons, as well as does
not create material damage.
2.2 The contractual partner is obligated to evaluate the need to compile a risk
analysis of the site and the works to be executed. The contractual partner, if it
decides not to compile a risk analysis, then it is obligated to inform Eesti Energia

thereof. The contractual partner, in case it compiles a risk analysis of the site and
the works to be executed, is obligated to present it to Eesti Energia, if needed.
2.3 The contractual partner is obligated to take into use, occupational safety
measures that are in correspondence with the nature of the work and the
legislation valid in the Republic of Estonia.
2.4 The contractual partner is obligated to fulfill all requirements arising from
legislation, applicable relative to its contractual activities (among others the
Occupational Health and Safety Act, Product Safety Act, Building Code, Fire
Safety Act, Chemicals Act, as well as other legislation, including the requirements
established in the safety guidelines of local municipal government units).
2.5 The contractual partner,if it uses in fulfilling its contractual obligations a
subcontractor, then it is obligated to inform Eesti Energia thereof immediately.
The contractual partners obligates to ensure that the subcontractor approaches
from the current requirements on the territory of Eesti Energia and/or work site
and is responsible for whatsoever damages arising from the nonfulfilment of the
requirements. The contractual partner is also obligated to ensure that the
employees of the subcontractor and other persons the subcontractor uses in
fulfilling the contract possess the required qualification for performing the
corresponding work. The contractual partner is responsible for the activities
and/or lack of activity of its subcontractors or other persons included by the
contractor, regardless of the approval of the client;
2.6 Electrical work, fire work, lifting work and other works requiring the fulfilment of
specific requirements may only be organised and executed by personnel with the
corresponding competency and qualification. Eesti Energia has the right to
demand from the contractual partner and its subcontractors, for the persons used
in the fulfilment of the contract, material proving their qualification.
2.7 The contractual partner is obligated to immediately inform the representative of
Eesti Energia and the security centre of Eesti Energia, tel. 59 151 112 of
accidents having taken place in the fulfilment of its contractual obligations (incl.
accidents almost having taken place) and incidents, incl. situations which could
cause an accident.
2.8 The representatives of Eesti Energia have the right to check the work
organisation of the contractual partner and its subcontractors in the field of OHS.
2.9 The contractual partner is responsible for the conformity and control of the quality
and safety requirements of work, material and services related to the contract.
2.10 Eesti Energia may at its discretion, if needed, establish additional
requirements in the field of OHS, in the contract to be signed with the contractual
partner or with a separate procedure. Eesti Energia obligates to inform the
contractual partner within 5 work days of the additionally established
requirements.
2.11 It is strictly prohibited to be active on the site of Eesti Energia or with the
client, with signs of fatigue, in an unsober state, intoxicated with narcotics or
toxins, as well as with their residual effects. The contractual partner obligates to
remove such a person immediately from the fulfilment of job duties. The access
to the territory of Eesti Energia will be permanently closed to the employee of the
contractual partner that is intoxixated or with residual effects.
2.12 The contractual partner is obligated to ensure safety in the work zone, as well
as if required, restrict access to the work area.
2.13 The contractual partner is responsible, when active on the site of Eesti
Energia, for the general maintenance and condition of the work environment. The
contractual partner is obligated throughout work to clean up all waste and waste
materials after itself, as well as upon leaving, to leave the work area at least in a
condition of equal value, as to which it was in prior to starting work, unless not
agreed otherwise.

2.14 The person in charge of work, in the case of an emergency, accident or a
danger thereof, obligates him/herself to utilise all reasonably necessary
measures to avoid the emergency situation or accident or liquidating its
consequences, as well as to inform the representative of Eesti Energia, at the
first possible opportunity of the measures taken, as well as to follow the orders of
the Eesti Energia.representative.
2.15 All persons used by the contractual partner and the subcontractor, in the
execution of works, must be guided according to requirements for executing their
work, they must also fulfil requirements of occupational safety, ensuring the
safety of themselves, coworkers and bystanders.
2.16 All persons used by the contractual partner and the subcontractor, in the
execution of works, must have undergone a medical examination and their health
condition must be suitable for the fulfilment of the contractual duties.
2.17 Eesti Energia has the right, in the case of violations of the requirements of
OHS, to close the rights of access of the employee of the contractual partner, to
the sites of Eesti Energia as follows:
• on the ocaision of the initial violation to close the access rights for up to 3
months;
• on the second ocaision of violation to close the access rights for up to 6
months;
• on the third occaision of violation to permanently close the access rights.
2.18 Eesti Energia has the unilateral right to terminate the contract, signed
between the parties, in the case of a significant violation of the OHS
requirements, incl. by the subcontractor. A significant violation is considered to be
a violation of safety requirements that causes an accident at work to an employee
of Eesti Energia or a third party, causing of significant material damage or if there
was danger thereof on the territory of the Client.
2.19 Eesti Energia has the right to demand a contractual penalty of one thousand
(1000) Euros from the contractual party, in the case of a violation of the OHS
requirements.
2.20 All causes of accidents must be investigated by the contractual partner, as
well as the results presented to the representative of Eesti Energia. Eesti Energia
may demand the inclusion of an independent external partner for performing an
independent expertise of the accident.
2.21 The parties will inform each other, in the case of whatsoever questions in the
field of OHS, as well as a meeting with the corresponding content will be agreed
upon, if needed.
2.22 The employers, if at the same time on the work site, are working the
employees of at least two employers and the employer that organises work is
lacking, the employers sign a written agreement on the joint activities in the field
of occupational health and safety, as well as on the responsibilities of the
employers. The employers are solidarily responsible, if no agreement has been
signed, in the case of damage.
2.23 The legislation of the Republic of Estonia will be approached from, in cases
not regulated by the current or additional OHS requirements.
2.24 The contractual partner or any of its representatives, if they find some rule or
requirement for ensuring safety as ununderstandable, he/she is obligated to
address the representative of Eesti Energia for receiving clarifications.
2.25 The contractual partner obligates to be guided from the current OHS
requirements as minimum requirements.

