[logo_corner_small]Procurement procedure

1.  Subject of public procurement and general information

    1.  The basic documents for public procurement (hereinafter also the
        RHAD) consist of the documents listed in Section 125 of the
        Public Procurement Act (hereinafter also the RHS). All documents
        complement each other. Any obligation, condition or requirement
        set out in any document is mandatory for the tenderer.

    2.  The RHAD has been prepared in Estonian and English. In the event
        of any inconsistencies between the Estonian and English versions
        of the basic public procurement documents, the provisions of the
        Estonian version of the basic public procurement documents shall
        prevail. The Estonian version of the basic public procurement
        documents shall prevail.

    3.  The subject matter of the framework agreement is described in
        the RHAD document "Technical Description".

    4.  Public procurement is organized in accordance with the
        procurement procedure set out in Chapter 5 of the RHS and the
        conditions set out in the RHAD .

    5.  The bidder and the bid submitted by the bidder must meet all the
        conditions set out in the RHAD . All documents required by the
        RHAD must be submitted with the bid. electronically through the
        e-public procurement environment at https://riigihanked.riik.ee.

    6.  Other requirements and guidelines that must be taken into
        account:

1.6.1. Occupational health and safety requirements for Eesti Energia's
contractual partners,

1.6.2. Eesti Energia Group's Code of Ethics for Partners.

2.  Requirements for bidders, elimination and qualification of bidders

    1.  The grounds for exclusion from public procurement, the
        requirements for the economic and financial status and technical
        and professional competence of the bidder are set out in the
        RHAD document "Grounds for Exclusion and Qualification
        Conditions".

    2.  The contracting entity has the right to verify that the bidder
        does not have grounds for exclusion throughout the public
        procurement and not to conclude a procurement contract with a
        bidder who has grounds for exclusion as provided for in the
        RHAD.

    3.  If the bidder does not submit the documents necessary for
        verifying the grounds for exclusion, or explanations regarding
        the content of the submitted documents, or data or documents
        enabling clarification, by the deadline set by the contracting
        authority, and these data or documents are not available to the
        contracting authority without significant costs based on the
        public data in the database, the contracting authority shall
        exclude the bidder from the public procurement.

    4.  Only bidders whose residence or registered office is in Estonia,
        another European Union Member State, another European Economic
        Area contracting state, or a country that has acceded to the
        World Trade Organization's Government Procurement Agreement may
        participate in public procurement.

3.  Tender requirements, verification of tender compliance

    1.  The requirements for the tender are set out in the RHAD document
        “Conditions of Eligibility” and “Technical Specification”.

    2.  In the RHAD forms submitted with the tender, the tenderer is
        prohibited from removing/changing the confirmations/conditions
        specified by the contracting entity on the forms. The tenderer
        may change the forms only to the extent specified for this
        purpose (cells, brackets, lines, etc. indicated on the form).

    3.  The provisions of Section 112 of the Public Procurement Act
        shall apply to the extension of the tender validity period.

    4.  The contracting authority shall declare the tender to be
        responsive if it complies with the requirements set out in the
        RHAD. The contracting authority may declare the tender to be
        responsive if it does not contain any substantive deviations
        from the conditions specified in the RHAD.

    5.  The contracting authority shall reject the tender if the tender
        does not comply with the requirements set out in the RHAD or if
        the tenderer does not submit the explanations requested by the
        contracting authority by the deadline or if, based on the
        explanations provided by the tenderer, it is not possible to
        unambiguously assess the conformity of the tender with the
        conditions set out in the RHAD.

    6.  In the event that there is a calculation error in the cost of
        the tender, the contracting authority shall proceed from Section
        117(3) of the Public Procurement Act.

4.  Rejection of offers

    1.  The contracting entity has the right to reject all tenders at
        any time before the conclusion of the contract:

        1.  if the costs of all tenders are higher than the estimated
            cost of the procurement contract and the contract is not
            acceptable to the contracting entity at such a cost;

        2.  if less than 3 bids are received from different bidders in
            the procurement and thus effective exploitation of
            competition within the framework of the procurement is not
            ensured within the meaning of Section 3, Clause 3 of the
            RHS;

        3.  if an event has occurred that can be considered force
            majeure. Force majeure is a circumstance that the
            contracting entity cannot influence and in which the
            contracting entity cannot reasonably be expected to take
            into account or avoid this circumstance during the public
            procurement process or to overcome the hindering
            circumstance or its consequences.

    2.  The contracting entity has the right to reject the tender at any
        time before the conclusion of the contract if the contracting
        entity finds that the cost of the tender, any price component or
        unit price is unreasonably low considering the subject matter of
        the procurement contract. The contracting entity shall apply the
        provisions of Section 115(1) and (7)-10 of the Public
        Procurement Act. A general statement by the tenderer that the
        cost of the tender is based on the tenderer's extensive
        experience and real costs and that the tenderer is able to
        perform the contract at the cost offered shall not be considered
        sufficient.

5.  Evaluation and award of tenders

    1.  The evaluation criteria, evaluable indicators and evaluation
        methodology are described in the RHAD document “Evaluation
        criteria and evaluable indicators”.

    2.  The bid that receives the most value points during the
        evaluation will be declared successful.

    3.  If the value points assigned to the tenders are equal, the
        successful tender will be selected by drawing lots in accordance
        with the procedure, time and place determined by the contracting
        entity, and in which the legal or authorized representatives of
        the tenderers who submitted tenders with equal value points will
        participate.

6.  Conclusion of a framework agreement

    1.  The contracting entity concludes a framework agreement with the
        successful tenderer. The draft framework agreement is included
        in the RHAD "Framework Agreement Draft" and is binding on the
        tenderer.

    2.  If the successful tenderer withdraws its tender before the
        conclusion of the procurement contract or does not sign the
        procurement contract within 30 working days, the contracting
        entity has the right to proceed from Section 119 of the Public
        Procurement Act, including Section 119(3) of the Public
        Procurement Act.

    3.  The contracting entity shall conclude the framework agreement in
        the Estonian language version.

7.  Other provisions

    1.  The contracting entity reserves the right to declare the public
        procurement invalid in the event of justified need on the
        contracting entity's own initiative.

    2.  The contracting entity may check the compliance of tenders with
        the conditions set out in the RHAD and assess the tenders
        declared compliant in accordance with the procedure provided for
        in this Act before checking the absence of grounds for exclusion
        and the qualifications of the tenderers. In such a case, the
        contracting entity shall ensure that the procurement contract is
        not concluded with a tenderer who should have been excluded from
        the procurement procedure on the basis of subsection 95 (1) of
        this Act or who does not meet the qualification conditions
        established by the contracting entity in accordance with
        subsection 52 (3) of the RHS.

    3.  Any reference made by the contracting entity in the basic
        procurement documents to any of the grounds referred to in
        Section 88(2) of the RHS (standard, technical approval,
        technical control system, etc.) as a criterion for compliance
        with the technical specifications of the tender shall be read as
        if it were supplemented by the words “or equivalent”. Any
        reference made by the contracting entity in the basic
        procurement documents to a source of purchase, process,
        trademark, patent, type, origin or method of production shall be
        read as if it were supplemented by the words “or equivalent”.
        Equivalence means exactly the same performance characteristics
        and functionalities.

    4.  Clarifications regarding the content of the RHAD can be obtained
        by contacting the contracting entity in writing through the
        e-public procurement environment at
        https://riigihanked.riik.ee/, public procurement reference
        number 298924.
