DRAFT PUBLIC CONTRACT

/date in digital container/

Eesti Energia AS, registry code 10421629, registered office at Lelle 22,
Tallinn 11318, represented on the basis of a power of attorney by ……
(hereinafter: contracting authority), and

..., registry code ..., registered office at ..., represented on the
basis of ... by ... (hereinafter the contractor),

hereinafter separately referred to as the party and collectively as the
parties, entered into this public contract (hereinafter also referred to
as the contract) as follows.

SUBJECT MATTER OF THE CONTRACT AND CONTRACT DOCUMENTS 

1.  The contract is awarded as a result of the public procurement ‘IKT
    kolmanda osapoole riski-ja turvalisuse haldamise lahendus’ [’ICT
    Third Party Risk and Security Management Solution’] (reference
    number ) and in compliance with the procurement documents (Annex 1)
    and the tender submitted by the contractor (Annex 6).

2.  The subject matter of the contract is the acquisition of the right
    to use a third-party risk management and attack surface monitoring
    platform (including licenses and product support), which entails
    implementation, user training, and provision of support service and
    services (hereinafter: the service).

3.  The public contract comprises the main part of the contract and its
    annexes: The annexes to be signed at the same time as the contract
    are:

    1.  Annex 1 – Technical specifications and annexes;

    2.  Annex 2 – Eesti Energia Group’s Code of Ethics for Partners;

    3.  Annex 3 – Occupational Health and Safety Requirements for the
          Contractual Partners of Eesti Energia;

    4.  Annex 4 – Tender, including product support terms.

4.  Other public procurement documentation, available on the Public
    Procurement Register, is also an integral part of the contract.

5.  Upon conflict between the contract and the annexes thereto, the
    parties must primarily adhere to the contract and then pursuant to
    the order of the list as set out in clause 1.3 (order of priority).

6.  Any amendments to the contract are attached as an annex.

1.  VALIDITY OF THE CONTRACT

    1.  The contract enters into force once it is signed and remains
        valid for 24 months. The contracting authority has the right to
        unilaterally extend the contract by one year. The contracting
        authority notifies the contractor of its desire to extend the
        contract 30 (thirty) days before the expiry of the contract.

2.  OBLIGATIONS OF THE CONTRACTOR

    1.  The contractor undertakes to make the service available within 5
        (five) business days from the signing of the contract.

    2.  The contractor undertakes to provide the service under the terms
        and conditions set out in Annex 1 to the contract, including:

        1.  provide usage service with training and necessary licenses
            and provide product support in accordance with the terms and
            requirements set out in the contract, the Annexes to the
            contract, and the tender, legislation, and technical quality
            requirements, norms and standards applied in information
            technology and telecommunications best practices;

        2.  be responsible for the uninterrupted availability of the
            service;

        3.  ensure the uninterrupted functioning and development of the
            service;

        4.  the contractor undertakes to make bug fixes and necessary
            updates to ensure the service’s compliance with legislation
            and the terms and conditions of the contract;

        5.  ensure the availability of product support on business days
            from 09:00 to 17:00 (Estonian time zone) and respond in
            accordance with the times set out in the contractor's
            product support terms;

        6.  the contractor undertakes to keep confidential the
            information obtained during the performance of the contract
            and to use it only for the performance of the contract;

        7.  inform the contracting authority immediately of any
            deficiencies and/or of any impediments and/or risks in the
            performance of its contractual obligations.

    3.  The contractor undertakes to ensure that the service is provided
        strictly under the sole control, management and supervision of
        the contractor, and that the data of the contracting authority
        is stored only within the European Union and on computer and
        data storage devices located there. The contractor must ensure
        the implementation of data protection measures that stem from
        the specifics of the solution, are set out as requirements and
        apply under legislation.

    4.  The contractor undertakes to notify the contracting authority
        immediately of any circumstances that prevent the performance of
        the contract and/or the use of the service.

    5.  The contractor undertakes to ensure that the contracting
        authority and companies belonging to the same group as the
        contracting authority are able to use the licenses delivered to
        the contracting authority for their intended purpose.

3.  CONTRACT FEES

    1.  The total cost of the service for 24 months is set out in the
        tender. To calculate the cost of one year of service, the total
        cost is divided by two.

    2.  The cost of the service for a third year, if the contracting
        authority extends the contract by 1 year after 24 months, is set
        out in the tender.

    3.  VAT is added to the remuneration in cases, pursuant to the
        procedure, and at the extent specified by law.

    4.  The fees specified in clauses 4.1 and 4.2 are the contractor’s
        only remuneration in connection with the contract, and the
        contractor and its employees do not receive per diems, indirect
        remuneration or other remuneration related to the obligations
        specified in the contract. Neither the contractor nor its
        employees are entitled to additional author’s remuneration or
        other similar remuneration in connection with the patented or
        otherwise protected item or process used in the performance of
        the contract.

    5.  The remuneration set out in the contract must also include all
        charges related to intellectual property.

    6.  An invoice for the service is submitted once a year for a
        12-month period. The contractor has the right to submit an
        invoice to the contracting authority for the first year of use
        of the service after making the service available to the
        contracting authority.

    7.  The contracting authority prefers to receive e-invoices in XML
        format. If it is not possible for the contractor to submit an
        e-invoice in this format, an invoice sent by email in PDF format
        will also be accepted. Invoices must be sent to the email
        address eesti.energia@e-arvetekeskus.eu.

    8.  The invoice must contain at least the following information:

        1.  Information about the submitter of the invoice;

        2.  information about the payer;

        3.  information on the content of the transaction;

        4.  contract number:

        5.  VAT number;

        6.  net amount;

        7.  VAT;

        8.  total amount.

    9.  The contracting authority pays the contractor for the service on
        the basis of the invoice submitted by the contractor within 14
        (fourteen) calendar days of receipt of the invoice or, if the
        contractor has joined the contracting authority's factoring
        programme, within 95 (ninety-five) days of receipt of the
        invoice. When using factoring, the bank offering factoring
        transfers the money to the contractor in two instalments – the
        first 99% immediately after internal approval of the invoice by
        Eesti Energia and the remaining 1% minus factoring costs on the
        95th day from the date the invoice was issued. Information on
        the factoring programme of the contracting authority and the
        options to join it can be found on the website of the
        contracting authority.

    10. If the contracting authority does not agree with the invoice
        submitted by the contractor, the contracting authority
        immediately submits to the contractor a corresponding follow-up
        enquiry for clarifications and explanations. The contracting
        authority pays the uncontested part of the partially contested
        invoice by the due date set out in the contract. The contractor
        will not charge interest on late payment on its invoice until
        the contractor has provided the contracting authority with a
        justification for the accuracy of the disputed amount.

4.  LIABILITY OF THE PARTIES

    1.  The parties are liable to the other party for any direct
        proprietary damage caused to the other party by the
        non-performance or improper performance of obligations under the
        contract, but not for any loss of profit. The parties are liable
        for the acts or omissions of their representatives, employees
        and cooperation partners as well as for their own acts and
        omissions.

    2.  If a time limit has been set for the performance of an
        obligation arising from the contract and the contractor is late
        in performing the said obligation, the contracting authority has
        the right to claim a contractual penalty of 100 euros from the
        contractor for each day of delay. If the time limit is set in
        hours and the contractor is less than 1 (one) calendar day late
        in fulfilling the obligation, the contractual penalty will be
        calculated proportionally according to the number of hours in
        delay.

    3.  If the contractor is in material breach of an obligation arising
        from the contract, the contracting authority has the right to
        claim a contractual penalty of up to 20% of the total price of
        the contract. A material breach of contract is considered to be,
        in particular, the breaches specified in clause 5.9 of the
        contract. If the contractual penalty does not cover all the
        damage incurred, the contracting authority has the right to
        claim from the contractor compensation for damage exceeding the
        contractual penalty.

    4.  If the contracting authority delays the payment of an invoice,
        the contractor has the right to claim from the contracting
        authority an interest on late payment of up to 0.03% of the
        outstanding principal debt per day for each day of delay.

    5.  In case of any violation of the confidentiality obligation
        arising from the contract, the contracting authority has the
        right to claim contractual penalty from the contractor in the
        amount of up to five thousand (5,000) euros.

    6.  Payment of the contractual penalty does not preclude the right
        of the parties to exercise any other legal remedies available
        arising from the contract or law. Among other things, the
        contracting authority is entitled to claim compensation for
        damages not covered by the contractual penalty.

    7.  Payment of the contractual penalty does not release the party
        from the obligations arising from the contract.

    8.  A party has the right to cancel the contract at any time by
        giving notice thereof in writing at least thirty (30) calendar
        days in advance without giving any reason. The contracting
        authority undertakes to pay the contractor for the service
        performed by that time in accordance with the terms of the
        contract.

    9.  A party has the right to cancel the contract without prior
        notice upon a material breach of contract by the other party. In
        addition to the grounds provided by law, the following
        situations, among others, are considered to constitute a
        fundamental breach of contract:

        1.  the contractor delays the performance of their contractual
              obligations by more than 30 (thirty) calendar days;

        2.  the contractor has notified that they will not perform the
              contract;

        3.  the contractor fails to remedy breaches of contract
              (including deficiencies in licences) or delays remedying
              them for more than 30 (thirty) calendar days;

        4.  the contractor has been declared bankrupt;

        5.  the contractor has encountered serious financial
              difficulties;

        6.  the contractor is in breach of the obligation of
              confidentiality.

5.  NOTICES

    1.  One party sends the notices related to the contract to the other
        party to the email address specified in the contract

    2.  A party’s claim to the other party, which is submitted as a
        result of a breach of the contract, must be delivered digitally
        signed by email.

    3.  The contract contact persons are:

        1.  Contracting authority: …, email…, phone…

        2.  Contractor: ……, email….. phone……

    4.  Contact persons have the right to submit questions, notices, and
        similar communications (hereinafter notices) on behalf of the
        party. Contact persons do not have the right to amend the
        contract.

    5.  Upon a change in the contact persons or their details, the
        parties do not enter into an agreement to amend the contract,
        but immediately notify each other of any change in such details
        by email.

    6.  Notices sent under the contract are formalised at least in a
        format that can be reproduced in writing, unless otherwise
        stated in a specific provision.

    7.  A notice submitted under the contract is deemed to have been
        submitted properly if it has been prepared in Estonian or
        English and sent by email, in which case it is deemed to have
        been received by the other party upon sending of the email, if
        this occurs on a business day between 09:00 and 17:00 and
        otherwise at 09:00 on the first business day following the day
        of sending, unless a notice of non-delivery of the email has
        been received from the server and the notice has been sent to
        the other party's contact person at the email address of that
        contact person.

6.  OBLIGATION OF CONFIDENTIALITY

    1.  Confidential information is information about the other party
        that has become known to the party, including the party’s
        representative (see definition in clause 7.4), in the course of
        conclusion and performance of the contract, which includes,
        inter alia, the following information: information about the
        financial situation, internal work organisation and other
        matters relating to work organisation of the other party,
        undertakings belonging to the same group of undertakings, their
        partners and customers; data processed in the systems managed by
        the other party; the contents of documents, the content of
        accounts and correspondence maintained by the other party;
        information about the assets and security systems of the other
        party; the other party's trade secrets, know-how, technologies,
        databases, computer programs, technical solutions, concepts,
        ideas, methods, procedures, business or marketing plans,
        business contacts, proposals, financial information, reports,
        correspondence, the content and results of research and
        development activities, software and related documentation,
        business-related information and data, other proprietary or
        unprotected intellectual property and any other information
        provided by the other party, including the other party's
        representatives, to the party, including the party's
        representatives, in the course of performing the contract,
        whether orally, in writing, electronically or in any other
        format.

    2.  Confidential information is not information that:

        1.  was in the possession of the party receiving the information
              or was lawfully made known to that party by a source who
              did not have an obligation of confidentiality to the other
              party in respect of that information;

        2.  regardless of the actions or inactions of the party
              receiving the information, is or becomes publicly known
              without breach of the contract.

    3.  The classification of information as confidential does not
        depend on its marking or designation as confidential.

    4.  A representative of the party (hereinafter: representative) is:

        1.  a party’s employee, member of a managing body or
              subcontractor;

        2.  an undertaking belonging to the same group of undertakings
              as the party and an employee, a member of the managing
              body or subcontractor of said undertaking;

        3.  any other natural or legal person acting on behalf of a
              party or an undertaking belonging to the same group of
              undertakings as the party.

    5.  The parties undertake during the validity of the contract and
        for a period of 5 (five) years after the cessation of the
        contract on any grounds, not to disclose to third parties
        confidential information of the other party without the prior
        written consent of the other party, to ensure the
        confidentiality of the confidential information and to use the
        confidential information only for the performance of their
        obligations under the contract (including to ensure the above by
        their representatives).

    6.  The parties are entitled to disclose confidential information to
        their respective representatives to the extent necessary for the
        performance of their obligations under the contract and provided
        that a confidentiality agreement substantially equivalent to the
        one contained in this contract has been entered into with the
        respective representative.

    7.  Where a party is obliged by law to disclose confidential
        information of the other party, that party must make an
        economically reasonable effort to provide the other party with a
        notice about such disclosure at least 10 (ten) business days in
        advance, limit the amount of confidential information to be
        disclosed as much as possible, and disclose confidential
        information only to the extent required by law.

7.  DOCUMENTATION

    1.  If documentation to be handed over to the contracting authority
        is prepared during the provision of the service, it will be
        prepared in Estonian or English.

    2.  An electronic data carrier is used for the preparation and
        distribution of documents.

    3.  The documentation must correspond to the solution provided under
        the service, comprise amendments and be terminologically
        unambiguous.

    4.  If the license producer has issued a user manual, it must be
        forwarded to the contracting authority at the first opportunity.
        The user manual may be in Estonian or English.

8.  PRODUCT SUPPORT

    1.  Product support must include updates and upgrades of the service
        and bug fixes, in accordance with Annex 1 and Annex 4 (Tender).

    2.  Product support also includes updating the service, including
        updates necessary to ensure that the functionality of the
        solution complies with applicable legislation. The contractor
        undertakes to keep up to date with changes in legislation and to
        inform the contracting authority of related solution updates and
        the time of their implementation.

    3.  The contractor provides technical support throughout the
        contract period in Estonian or English in accordance with the
        contractor's product support terms and conditions set out in the
        tender.

    4.  The contractor provides product support on business days from
        08:00 to 17:00 Estonian time. All weekdays are considered
        business days, except Saturday, Sunday and public holidays.

    5.  All product support activities during the contract period are
        covered by the contract fee (ie no additional fees can be
        charged for this).

    6.  Product support contact details: email:… and
        contractor-designated environment: …

9.  USER TRAINING

    1.  The contractor ensures adequate training to the contracting
        authority's main users to ensure the satisfactory and effective
        functioning of the service, as agreed in the contract and Annex
        1.

    2.  The contractor will conduct user training for the contracting
        authority's main users within 30 (thirty) days of entering into
        the public contract.

    3.  User training will take place via video link and the time, place
        and scope of the training will be coordinated in advance with
        the contracting authority's contact person.

    4.  User training must be held in Estonian or English.

10. PERMITS AND LICENSES

    1.  The contractor is solely liable for obtaining the permits and
        licences necessary for the performance of the contract. The
        contracting authority co-operates reasonably with the contractor
        to prevent any unnecessary delay or refusal in obtaining such
        permits and licences.

    2.  The contracting authority may terminate the contract without
        prior notice if the contractor fails to obtain the permits or
        licences necessary for the performance of the contract.

    3.  The contractor guarantees that it has the right to grant the
        contracting authority the right to use of the solution offered
        under the service and any other items protected by copyright or
        other similar rights that form the subject matter of the
        contract.

    4.  The contractor guarantees that the transfer of the said usage
        right does not violate the rights of third parties. If a third
        party brings a claim against the contracting authority for
        rights infringement and the claim is upheld, the contractor must
        pay any resulting claims for damages, costs for legal assistance
        and other related costs.

11. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

    1.  The contractor grants the contracting authority the right to use
        the service within the scope and to the extent set out in the
        contract.

    2.  The contractor is obliged to ensure the existence and validity
        of the licences and, where necessary, other intellectual
        property rights required for the performance of the contract
        throughout its duration.

    3.  The contractor declares that granting the contracting authority
        the right of use of a solution as a result of the service does
        not infringe copyrights or other intellectual property rights of
        third parties during the term of validity of the contract.

    4.  The contractor is liable if the licences offered by them violate
        the rights of other persons. The contractor undertakes to
        compensate the contracting authority for all costs and damages
        arising from the contractor's violation of this clause and
        incurred by the contracting authority.

    5.  The contractor provides the contracting authority with
        confirmations verifying the right to use the copyrights and
        other intellectual property rights of all software licences no
        later than by the time when the contracting authority needs to
        use said rights.

    6.  The contractor hands over to the contracting authority the
        documents and information necessary for the use of the rights
        arising from the licences under the contract.

    7.  The contractor bears all direct and indirect damages resulting
        from the fact that a third party has or is alleged to have
        intellectual property rights to the object of intellectual
        property related to the contract.

    8.  In copyright matters not regulated by the contract, the
        copyright-related legislation in force in the Republic of
        Estonia must be adhered to.

    9.  The rights described in this chapter also extend to all
        undertakings belonging to the Group of the contracting
        authority.

DATA PROTECTION AND INFORMATION SECURITY

13.1. Data protection and information security requirements apply to all
data of the Client, including personal data processed by the Contractor
in the performance of the Agreement (within the meaning of Article 4(2)
of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)) or which becomes known
to the Contractor during the performance of the Agreement.

  13.1.1. Data subjects whose personal data the Contractor processes on
  behalf of the Client are: the Client’s employees.

13.1.2. Types/categories of personal data processed by the Contractor on
behalf of the Client are: name and contact details and login
credentials.

13.1.3. The purpose of personal data processing by the Contractor on
behalf of the Client is: communication and activities related to the
performance of the Agreement.

13.2. The Contractor undertakes to comply with the Client’s written
instructions (in a reproducible form) for ensuring data protection
and/or information security, except where such instructions conflict
with applicable European Union and/or national legislation (e.g., GDPR,
Cybersecurity Act, HOS, NIS 2).

13.3. The Contractor shall notify the Client without undue delay (and in
any case no later than twenty-four (24) hours) upon becoming aware of a
personal data breach affecting the Client’s personal data (within the
meaning of GDPR Article 33) at privacy@enefit.ee and/or of a
cybersecurity incident (within the meaning of the Cybersecurity Act) to
the Agreement’s contact person, providing sufficient information to
enable the Client to fulfill any obligations to notify the supervisory
authority or data subjects in accordance with applicable data protection
and/or cybersecurity laws and regulations.

13.4. Taking into account the nature, scope, context, and purposes of
personal data processing, as well as the risks of varying likelihood and
severity to the rights and freedoms of natural persons, the Contractor
shall implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to
protect the Client’s personal data and ensure a level of security
appropriate to the risk, including, where applicable, the measures
referred to in GDPR Article 32.

13.5. The Contractor undertakes to delete the Client’s personal data
within 30 days after the termination of the Agreement, unless the
Parties have agreed in writing (in a reproducible form) on a different
retention period.

13.6. The Contractor shall not transfer the Client’s data, including
personal data, to any third party (sub-processor) without the Client’s
prior specific or general written consent. If the Contractor engages a
sub-processor, the Contractor remains fully liable to the Client for the
actions of the sub-processor.

13.7. The Contractor shall assist the Client, free of charge, in
resolving incidents and responding to inquiries or requests from data
subjects and authorities, in accordance with the Client’s instructions.

13.8. For data protection and information security matters not regulated
in this Agreement, the Parties shall follow applicable national and
European Union legislation and the requirements, guidelines,
instructions, and recommendations established thereunder.

  14.1. FORCE MAJEURE

1.  The parties are liable for breach of obligations, unless the breach
    is excusable. A breach of duty is excusable if it is caused by an
    unforeseeable or a circumstance beyond the party’s control (force
    majeure). The parties treat the circumstances referred to in
    subsection 2 of § 103 of the Law of Obligations Act as force
    majeure.

2.  A party whose actions in the performance of its obligations under
    the contract are hindered due to force majeure is required to notify
    the other party thereof immediately in writing, providing together
    with the notification evidence of the occurrence of all of the
    following circumstances:

    1.  the existence of a circumstance hindering the proper performance
        of the obligation;

    2.  the existence of an hindering circumstance outside the debtor's
        control;

    3.  unpredictability of the circumstance;

    4.  the inevitability and insurmountability of the circumstance.

3.  In the event of force majeure, the term of the contract is extended
    by the period during which the force majeure occurs. Upon a lapse of
    the circumstances of force majeure, the party must immediately
    proceed to perform the contract. If due to force majeure, the
    performance of a party’s obligations under the contract is hindered
    for more than 30 (thirty) calendar days, the other party may cancel
    the contract.

14. FINAL PROVISIONS

    1.  The parties undertake to do everything in their power to avoid
        any damage to the other party, including damage to the
        reputation of the other party.

    2.  The parties declare that by entering into the contract they are
        not violating any provision of law, rules or regulations, or
        other legislation applicable to them, or any of the obligations
        assumed by them under previously concluded contracts and
        agreements, and that they have the necessary authorisations and
        competence to enter into the contract under the terms and
        conditions and procedure stipulated herein.

    3.  The contract has been prepared in Estonian and translated into
        English. In the case of any discrepancies between the Estonian
        and English versions, the Estonian version of the contract
        prevails.

    4.  The contract may be amended by written agreement of the parties.
        All amendments to this contract enter into force after being
        signed by both parties or on a date agreed in writing by the
        parties.

    5.  All disputes arising from the contract will be resolved by the
        parties through negotiation. If no agreement is reached, the
        dispute will be settled in Harju District Court. This contract
        is subject to the law of the Republic of Estonia.

Signatures of the parties

Eesti Energia AS [Contractor] 

……. …………….

(signed digitally) (signed digitally)
