  Annex 1: Principles for software development quality management

1.  Development work

    1.  Work aimed at developing new software or creating a new
          functionality for or changing the functionality of existing
          software is considered development work. The purpose of
          development works is to ensure the functionality of software,
          based on changed or added needs. Software development works
          shall be considered:

        1.  analysis;

        2.  creation of architecture;

        3.  technical design;

        4.  usability analysis and design of screen views;

        5.  programming;

        6.  project management;

        7.  testing;

        8.  configuration of the base software and other work necessary
              for completion of the software as required;

        9.  documentation of works performed;

        10. other works related to development.

    2.  In developing software in a development environment, it should
          be kept in mind that must be possible to later develop
          software further and make changes to it without the need for a
          development environment framework or other additional
          components.

    3.  The specific nature of operations of Client infrastructure
          requires information systems to be developed and implemented
          rapidly, and thus agile software development methodology must
          be used. Based on the project’s specifics, other software
          development methodologies may be applied as well upon
          agreement with Client.

    4.  It must be possible to adopt use of software with additional
          functionality step by step starting from the commencement of
          the project, and the development process must allow individual
          installations of functionality.

    5.  Depending on needs, the development team must be prepared to
        deliver software with a new added functionality to the user once
        a week.

    6.  The development environment is based at the developer’s
        location. The test environment, pre-production environment (if
        needed) and production environment are located at Client or
        Client’s hosting service provider.

    7.  The installations of the ready developments into the test
        environment, preproduction environment and producing environment
        are performed by Client or Client’s hosting service provider.

    8.  Developments must be versioned using the GIT version control
          system. The source code for the fruits of programming work
          shall be stored and handed over in Client’s version control
          system (GIT) pursuant to the required structure and the
          synchronization agreements regarding the versions in
          development and production environment must be followed.

    9.  When ordering work, use-cases shall be described and furnished
          with a code. The code on the order must match the code on the
          developer’s work.

    10. If necessary, the developer must be prepared to substantiate the
          volumes expended for executing the work.

    11. The ordered work shall be handed over on the basis of an
        instrument of delivery containing a list of the works and
        outcomes being handed over along with the time spent on
        performing specific work.

    12. The prerequisite for delivery and acceptance of developments is
          the existence of documentation described in clause 3.9.

    13. Client has the right to use the assistance of out-of-house
          experts to assess the outcomes and quality of works.

    14. The performance of development works must not interfere with
          Client’s everyday activity with existing software unless
          Client has provided prior written permission for this.

    15. The working language of the project must be English.

2.  Requirements for development work

    1.  The developed software code and functionality must be testable
          using automation tests, where possible, but the coverage with
          automation testing may not be lower than 80%.

    2.  The outcomes performed (classes, functions, including tests)
          shall be documented in javadoc format.

    3.  The outcome of the work must meet OWASP (www.owasp.org) level
          2B.

    4.  The source code comments must be clear, understandable and
          essentially describe the corresponding code. The application
          code must be well annotated so that a software developer with
          corresponding training would be able to continue development
          on the application.

    5.  Code not in use must be removed from the application.

    6.  The code format must continue in the same style as the existing
          code.

    7.  The integrity, confidentiality and availability of the data must
          be ensured pursuant to the application or development brief’s
          requirements.

    8.  It must be possible to log what is taking place in the
          application. The logs must be accessible for designated users
          through the application.

    9.  The time-based values in databases must be recorded using UTC
          time.

    10. UTC time must be used in data exchange operations.

    11. In data exchange pertaining to electricity and gas data,
          standardized XML based data exchange formats must be used. If
          a suitable format is not found among the standards, creation
          of a new format must be considered. In the course of analysis,
          at least the following sources should be processed:

        1.  Gas - Edig@s Gas trading documents and schemas

    12. For uploads and downloads taking more time than 2 seconds, a
          moving indicator must be displayed to the user until the
          upload/download is complete. The precise design element shall
          be agreed with an Client representative before it is used.

    13. Software products that handle personal data must take into
          account the personal data protection requirements arising from
          legislation.

    14. Additional non-functional requirements that must be followed are
          described in Client’s non-functional requirements document.

3.  Requirements for documentation

    1.  Documentation takes place pursuant to the agreed-upon software
          development methodology, the aim of which is to ensure
          sustainable, transparent and high-quality software development
          and maintenance.

    2.  All documentation must take place in the Client Confluence
          environment pursuant to the structure set forth by Client.

    3.  The management of all development work must take place in
          Client’s Jira environment.

    4.  All documentation must be written in English unless agreed
          otherwise.

    5.  Documents must be created in a logical and systematic structure
          that makes up a interrelated whole.

    6.  References to documents must be made in uniform manner and
          logically interconnected to make it easy to orient throughout
          the structure of documents.

    7.  The documents must be versioned pursuant to versions of the
          application. With each new application’s version, the
          documentation’s versions must also be updated. Upon handing
          over all versions of the application to the Contracting
          Authority, the Contractor shall also hand over the
          corresponding version of the documentation unless agreed
          otherwise.

    8.  With each new version, the release notes must also always be
          documented, which must document all changes between the old
          and new version.

    9.  The documentation must include the following unless agreed
          otherwise.

        1.  The functional specification (diagrams of use-cases and
            specifications: UML (http://www.omg.org/spec/UML/), business
            rules: BPMN 2 (www.bpmn.org)).

        2.  Technical specification (Design). Document comprehensively
              describing the application documenting all of the changes
              made to the application/functionality. Describes the
              details of the realized software (forms, fields, tables,
              error messages, business rules, interface specifications,
              application context-component diagrams, process logic
              specifications, XML schemes and semantic specification to
              be created/modified etc.). It must be possible to carry
              out testing and admin activities on the basis of the
              documentation.

        3.  Architecture document. Describes the application’s general
              structure, interfaces and dependencies on other
              applications. Describes the application’s logical
              structure, indicating how it is distributed into layers,
              and also the physical architecture, technologies and
              methods used.

        4.  Application maintenance guide. Describes the integral
              guidance material necessary for provision of system,
              application, data and content management, hosting,
              tracking, backup and recovery services, on the basis of
              which it is possible to offer admin services to the
              solution.

        5.  Delivery installation guide;

        6.  Physical data model. Describes the data structure used for
              saving data (database scheme and explanations describing
              the tables, columns, indices, views, triggers, procedures
              and functions used in the database, scripts for changes
              and installation scripts).

        7.  Testing documentation. Information gained from testing the
              executed developments (test cases, test plan etc.).

        8.  User manuals pursuant to the use-cases and user groups
              described.

        9.  Explanations of terminology and concepts. Terminology and
              concepts that are in use throughout the documentation with
              regard to the relevant application.
