DRAFT FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT

Contracting authority: Elering AS, AS “Conexus Baltic Grid”

Public procurement with simple procurement procedure: Framework
agreement for Common IT Platform developments

FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT No. ....

The agreement is awarded as a result of the public procurement with
simple procurement procedure as organised by Elering AS.

Procurement title: Framework agreement for Common IT Platform
developments (hereinafter the Simple Procurement)

Simple Procurement reference number:

The parties to this agreement (hereinafter the Agreement) are:

Elering AS, registry code 11022625, registered office Kadaka tee 42,
Tallinn 12915, represented by _____

and

AS “Conexus Baltic Grid”, Latvian VAT registration No. LV40203041605,
registered office Aristida Briāna Street 6, Riga, LV-1001, Latvia,
represented by _______

(hereinafter both together referred to as the Contracting Entities or
a/the Party, and jointly with the Contractor referred to as the
Parties),

and

, registry code , registered office , ,

and

, registry code , registered office , ,

(hereinafter the Contractor or a/the Party, jointly with the Contracting
Entities the Parties),

represented on the basis of by .

The Contractors represent and warrant that they are solidarily liable
for the performance of the public contract.

BASIC DEFINITIONS AND ENTRY INTO PUBLIC CONTRACTS BASED ON THE FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT

In this Agreement, unless the context requires otherwise, the following
capitalised definitions have the following meanings:

Agreement – this framework agreement with all annexes thereto.

Software – the Common balancing zone IT system, incl. its part or
follow-up development, to be developed and maintained by the Contractor
on the basis of the Agreement. In respect of the Software, the
Contractor is required to create the following in the Contracting
Entities’ version and error management system: the development code,
source code, installation manual, release notes, changelog, automatic
tests, administration manual, user manuals and other related documents
(incl. the documents and other materials specified in clause 1.5 of the
Agreement) and deliver these to the Contracting Entities in accordance
with clause 1.5. The aforementioned documentation, user manuals and
other materials must provide the Contracting Entities with a principal
and reasonably practicable ability to repair and develop the Software as
well as to train and instruct their employees in using the Software.
Reference to the Software in this Agreement also means reference to all
the documentation, user manuals and other materials to be delivered
along with the Software.

Software Description – a full description of the structural, functional,
technical, legal and other properties of the Software as set out in the
Agreement, annexes thereto and each order placed by the Contracting
Entities on the basis of a Public Contract or written order.

Work – development or maintenance of the Software or execution of its
follow-up developments as ordered by the Contracting Entities from the
Contractor on the basis of a public contract or written order in the
volume set out in the public contract or written order. If the Software
is ordered from the Contractor on the basis of a public contract or
written order, the Work is deemed completed if the prerequisites set out
in clause 1.6 have been met.

Transfer of the Work – installation of the Work or an intermediate
result of the creation thereof in the Contracting Entities’ Test
Environment and its transfer to the Contracting Entities for examination
and testing under the terms and conditions prescribed in the Agreement
(incl. in the case of every additional development that has been ordered
separately), incl. the documentation, development code, source code,
training sessions, user manuals, structure, design, user interfaces and
their specifications, data flow integration solutions, databases created
or to be created in the course of performing the Work, etc., have been
delivered to the Contracting Entities and all the tests (incl. the
Acceptance Test) that form part of the development process have been
performed. Transfer of the Work does not obligate the Contracting
Entities to accept it. Before the Work is transferred, the Contracting
Entities performs a smoke test in respect of the Work unless otherwise
agreed by the Parties.

Acceptance of the Work – approval (acceptance) of the transferred Work
or its intermediate result by the Contracting Entities under the terms
and conditions prescribed by the Agreement after the Acceptance Tests
have been performed and the deficiencies detected as a result of the
tests have been eliminated. The Work (or its intermediate result) is
ready for use after the Contracting Entities has accepted the Work.

Acceptance Test – testing the Work or its intermediate result under the
terms and conditions provided for in the Agreement. Successful passage
of the Acceptance Test is the main, but not the only, prerequisite for
the acceptance of the Work by the Contracting Entities.

Hardware – the technical infrastructure offered by the Contracting
Entities or a third party.

Test Environment – the virtual environment meant for testing the
Software, the Contracting Entities’ development activities, and for
training.

The Agreement also includes other definitions that have been specified
in the text of the Agreement or whose meaning arises from the context of
the Agreement and the conventional terminology of the Parties’ areas of
activity covered by the Agreement.

The Contractor is aware and accepts that, due to the specificity of the
Agreement as a framework agreement, the Contracting Entities have no
obligation to order service under this Agreement and this Agreement is
entered into in order to agree on the terms and conditions of the public
contracts and written orders to be entered into on the basis of the
Agreement as regards, above all, the maximum value of the unit price of
the service.

More detailed technical conditions, scope and value of the object of the
Agreement are set out according to the Contracting Entities’ needs and
priorities in the public contracts or written orders to be entered into
as a result of negotiations to be held on the basis of the Agreement in
a format that can be reproduced in writing (hereinafter jointly referred
to as the Public Contracts). A Public Contract is entered into as a
written order if the value of each tender, based on an hourly price, as
set out in the Contractor’s written-format tender is below 20,000
(twenty thousand) euros (excl. VAT). If the value of a written-form
tender based on an hourly price is 20,000 (twenty thousand) euros or
more (excl. VAT), a Public Contract is entered into in accordance with
the draft public contract set out in Annex 3.

1.  The Public Contract(s) must be in compliance with the terms and
    conditions provided for in the Agreement. If the terms and
    conditions of the Public Contract(s) are different from those
    provided for in the Agreement, the terms and conditions of the
    Public Contract(s) must be more favourable for the Contracting
    Entities than those provided for in the Agreement.

2.  Public Contract(s) shall be signed on behalf of Contracting Entities
    by:

    1.  Elering AS: management board chairman and management board
        member overseeing IT issues jointly;

    2.  AS “Conexus Baltic Grid”: management board chairman and
        management board member overseeing IT issues jointly;

3.  Either of the Contracting Entities shall have the right to negotiate
    and enter into a Public Contract with the Contractor solely, and
    joint participation of both Contracting Entities shall not be
    mandatory. In the event of a Contracting Entity entering into a
    Public Contract solely, that Contracting Entity shall be solely
    responsible for payment for Work performed pursuant to the solely
    concluded Public Contract. All other terms of the Agreement shall
    apply without modification.

The Contracting Entities enter into a Public Contract with the
Contractor for each order of the Work on the basis of the following
principles and procedure:

4.  the Contracting Entities prepare work items and backlogs and obtain
      the Contractor’s approval for the work items based on which each
      Work is ordered, i.e. the Contracting Entities submit to the
      Contractor a description of the Work requested by the Contracting
      Entities, i.e. place an order;

5.  the Contractor is required to submit to the Contracting Entities a
      tender by the deadline established by the Contracting Entities and
      the tender must set out the actions necessary for performing the
      work (incl. follow-up developments and maintenance work), the
      maximum number of hours to be spent on such work and, based on the
      hourly price, and the total value of the work to be performed on
      the basis of an order, incl. the Contractor must take into account
      that the hourly price under the Public Contract may not exceed the
      hourly price set out in the tender of the Simple Procurement
      specified in clause 2.1.2. The Contractor may not set conditional
      requirements for the value of the hourly price in their tender,
      including the Contractor may not demand from the Contracting
      Entities a work volume the execution of which forms part of the
      Public Contract specified in clause 1.12.

6.  The Contractor must take into account the condition that payment for
      the Work ordered on the basis of a Public Contract is made on the
      basis of the number of hours actually spent on the Work, but the
      time that exceeds the maximum number of hours determined in the
      Public Contract is not subject to payment.

7.  The Work to be performed on the basis of the Public Contracts must
      be carried out observing the non-functional requirements which
      have been laid down in the technical specification set out in
      clause 2.1.1 and which are specified with the Contracting
      Entities.

The Public Contracts must be entered into during the term of the
Agreement, the term of a Public Contract that has been entered into may
be shorter or longer than the term of the Agreement.

The Contracting Entities submit to the Contractor an order for the Work
included in the Fixed Maintenance Fee (incl. the work that exceeds the
volume included in the Fixed Fee, but which is, due to its nature,
similar work) in the Jira or equivalent issue and project tracking
environment operated by the Contractor (hereafter – Jira) and
correspondence related to the fulfilment of the order takes place
through Jira unless otherwise agreed by the Parties. The Contractor is
required to submit to the Contracting Entities a response by the
deadline established by the Contracting Entities and the response must
set out the actions necessary for the performance of the Work and the
maximum number of hours to be spent on such Work, incl. the Contractor
must take into account that the hourly price under the Public Contract
may not exceed the hourly price set out in the tender of the Simple
Procurement specified in clause 2.1.2. The Contractor starts the work
after the Contracting Entities have accepted their response. The
Contractor submits to the Contracting Entities for approval a report on
the Work performed during the calendar month no later than by the tenth
(10^(th)) day of the following calendar month and the Contracting
Entities will either approve or refuse to approve the report in
accordance with the procedure set out in clause 7 of the Agreement.

1.  AGREEMENT DOCUMENTS

  The Agreement documents comprise the Agreement as well as annexes and
  amendments thereto. For the purposes of the Agreement, the term
  ‘Agreement’ means all of the Agreement documents. The Agreement has
  the following annexes:

1.  Annex 1 – the Contracting Entities’ procurement documents, including
    the ‘Service description’ (technical specification) procurement
    document of the Simple Procurement, the technical documentation of
    the object of the procurement and the explanations provided by the
    Contracting Entities in the course of the Simple Procurement;

2.  Annex 2 – the Contractor’s tender;

3.  other documents specified in the Agreement.

  In the case of any inconsistencies between or multiple interpretations
  of various Agreement documents, the explanations provided by the
  Contracting Entities in the course of the Simple Procurement will
  serve as the basis. If no explanations have been requested regarding
  inconsistencies, contradictions or deficiencies in the course of the
  Simple Procurement, the Contracting Entities’ interpretation of the
  purpose of the Agreement will serve as the basis and in such a case
  the Contractor will have no right to invoke unforeseeable
  circumstances, lack of information, differences in interpretation or
  other obstacles with regard to circumstances related to the
  performance of the Agreement.

2.  OBJECT OF THE AGREEMENT

  The object of the Agreement is the development of the existing Common
  balancing zone IT system follow-up developments by the Contractor for
  the Contracting Entities.

  The Parties’ rights and obligations are based on the Agreement, legal
  acts, standards and technical norms in force in the Republic of
  Estonia and good practice. The Contracting Entities and Contractor
  jointly ensure, at each stage of the Work, that the aforementioned
  requirements were executed in the Work. Regardless of the joint
  obligation, primary liability for the appropriate execution of the
  requirements in the Work is borne by the Contractor.

  If various solutions can be used to achieve the prescribed
  functionality, performance and other important properties of the
  Software (or other Work), the Contractor must consult the Contracting
  Entities about the issue and the Contracting Entities have the right
  to choose from among the solutions the solution that is the most
  suitable for the Contracting Entities.

3.  COMMUNICATION OF NOTICES. REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PARTIES AND
    COMMUNICATIONS CHANNELS

  All notices and other information must be in English. Notices and
  information are deemed as duly given if they have been communicated to
  the representatives set out in clauses 4.3 and 4.4 of the Agreement by
  e-mail. Notices of an organisational nature or urgent notices may also
  be given by telephone. If the Agreement prescribes written form for
  communication of information or if the information has legal
  consequences, such information will be communicated dated, numbered
  and signed by the Party’s representative.

  A Party immediately notifies the other Party in a format that can be
  reproduced in writing of a change in the contact persons specified in
  the Agreement.

  The Contractor is represented in technical and/or contractual issues
  by: , tel. , mobile tel. , fax , e-mail:

  The Contracting Entities shall be represented in technical and
  contractual issues (except for amendment of the Agreement) by:

1.  for Elering AS: .................., +372 ................., e-mail:
    .................;

2.  for AS “Conexus Baltic Grid”: ………., +371 ……….., e-mail: ……….

4.  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

  The owner of the outcome of the Work to be created on the basis of the
  Agreement (incl. the Software, analyses, data models, databases,
  materials, etc., to be created in the course of performing the Work)
  shall be the Contracting Entities. For the avoidance of doubt, the
  Parties hereby agree that either of the Contracting Entities shall
  have complete, independent rights to use the outcome of Work. For the
  avoidance of doubt, the definition ‘outcome of the Work’ also covers,
  in the context of this Agreement, all the development plans, designs,
  intermediate results, descriptions, repairs not yet applied, further
  developments and improvements of the outcome of the Work and all the
  related intellectual property (incl. the objects subject to copyright
  protection, database objects subject to legal protection as well as
  inventions and other intellectual property). The Contractor represents
  and warrants that they have no claims against the Contracting Entities
  in respect of the outcome of the Work. Should the Contractor still
  have any claim against the Contracting Entities or should such a claim
  arise in the future, the Contractor will waive that claim
  unconditionally and irrevocably.

  The Contractor assigns economic rights to the outcome of the Work to
  the each of the Contracting Entities separately without a term, to the
  fullest extent permitted by law without any geographical or other
  restrictions, including, but not limited to, the right to reproduce,
  disseminate, adjust, process and change the outcome of the Work and
  make it available to the public in any form and on any media as well
  as the right to apply for legal protection for the outcome of the
  Work. The Contracting Entities have the right to assign said rights to
  any person as they best see fit. The Contractor shall not interfere
  with the Contracting Entities’ exercise of economic rights to the
  outcome of the Work in any way.

  The Contractor grants the Contracting Entity an irrevocable exclusive
  licence without a term for exercising moral rights related to the
  outcome of the Work to the fullest extent permitted by law without any
  geographical or other restrictions, incl. the right to make (or order
  from third parties) changes and supplements to the outcome of the Work
  as they best see fit (incl. the right to create derivative works,
  interface the outcome of the Work with other software solutions) and
  the right to use the outcome of the Work (with or without supplements
  and changes) in any manner and for any action (hereinafter the
  Licence). The Contractor waives, in full, unconditionally and
  irrevocably, the exercise of their moral rights in any manner,
  including the Contractor waives, for the benefit of the Contracting
  Entity without a term, irrevocably and worldwide, their right to the
  inviolability and integrity of the outcome of the Work, and neither is
  the Contracting Entity required, when using the outcome of the Work,
  to refer to the author as the creator of the outcome of the Work or to
  the author’s pseudonym. The Contracting Entity has the right to pass
  on the right to use the outcome of the Work (sub-licence) to any third
  party as they best see fit.

  The Contractor represents and warrants that:

1.  they have entered into appropriate agreements with all the persons
      involved by the Contractor that has been involved in the
      development of the outcome of the Work and who could have rights
      to the outcome of the Work. Appropriate agreements mean agreements
      that ensure full enforceability of the agreements between the
      Contractor and Contracting Entities as provided for in clause 5 of
      this Agreement. The Contractor represents and warrants that none
      of the persons involved by them in performing the Work have any
      claims related to the outcome of the Work against the Contracting
      Entities and should such a person still have any claim against the
      Contracting Entities or should such a claim arise in the future,
      the Contractor is required to ensure that the person will waive
      that claim unconditionally and irrevocably;

2.  they will neither add to the Work (incl. to the Software) nor use in
      the Work (incl. in the Software) any work protected by third-party
      copyright or another intellectual property right, or another
      intellectual property without prior written consent granted by the
      author of the corresponding work or another entitled person and
      the Contracting Entities. The Contracting Entities may refuse to
      use a work protected by third-party copyright or another
      intellectual property right, or another intellectual property in
      the Work (incl. in the Software) or as an annex to the Work (incl.
      the Software) without providing any reasons. If the Contractor
      suspects that a third party’s work or another intellectual
      property is protected by copyright or another right, the
      Contractor is required not to use such a work or another
      intellectual property without the Contracting Entities’ prior
      written consent.

  The fee for the assignment of the economic rights and the licence fee
  are included in the remuneration payable to the Contractor on the
  basis of the Agreement and the Contractor has no right to request that
  the Contracting Entities pay any additional fees or compensations for
  the assignment of the rights provided for in this Agreement or for the
  right to use the outcome of the Work.

  The Contractor is liable for ensuring that the Work transferred by
  them is not in conflict with the patent or copyright laws in force in
  the Republic of Estonia or Republic of Latvia and respects other
  intellectual property rights.

  Economic rights to any outcome of the Work will transfer to the
  Contracting Entities and the Licence for the outcome of the Work will
  take effect automatically after the Work (incl. its each intermediate
  stage or other part) has been transferred to the Contracting Entities.

5.  DEADLINES FOR THE COMPLETION OF THE WORK

  The intermediate stages and deadlines of the Work will be specified in
  the Public Contracts to be entered into on the basis of the Agreement.

  The term for the Acceptance Test starts as of the day when the Work
  has been transferred to the Contracting Entities. The term for the
  Acceptance Test ends and the Warranty Period starts as of the day when
  the Contracting Entities accept, as a whole, the Work that is in
  compliance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement and its
  annexes. If the Parties have agreed on the transfer and acceptance of
  the Work in stages or in other parts, the term for the Acceptance Test
  of a specific stage or part will end at the time agreed between the
  Parties, but the Warranty Period of the Work will start after the
  Contracting Entities has accepted the Work as a whole (i.e. when the
  last stage or part has been accepted).

  The start of use of the Work is the day when the Contracting Entities
  accepted the Work as a whole.

  The deadlines established in the Agreement are final and may only
  extend under the terms and conditions provided for in the Agreement or
  on the basis of written agreement between the Parties.

  If the Contracting Entities wrongfully delay with the performance of
  any of their obligations under the Agreement and, due to the delay,
  the performance of the Work by the Contractor is impossible, all the
  deadlines of transfer of the Work that follow the delay will extend by
  the number of days of delay by the Contracting Entities provided that
  the Contractor has notified the Contracting Entities of the
  impossibility of the performance of the Work immediately in writing
  and specified the Contracting Entities’ obligations the failure of
  whose performance has prevented performance of the Contractor’s
  obligations.

6.  TRANSFER, TESTING AND ACCEPTANCE OF THE WORK

  The Work is transferred to the Contracting Entities at the location
  and pursuant to the procedure determined by the Contracting Entities
  or at another location and pursuant to another procedure agreed upon
  by the Parties. The transfer is fixed by signing the record of
  transfer of the Work, which is prepared by the Contractor. For the
  avoidance of doubt, the Contracting Entities have the right to refuse
  to sign the record of transfer of the Work if the transfer of the Work
  is not in compliance with the terms and conditions provided for in the
  Agreement.

  The Contracting Entities signs the record of acceptance of the Work or
  notifies the Contractor of refusal to accept the Work within 7 (seven)
  days of the expiry of the term for the Acceptance Test. If the
  performance of the Acceptance Test has not been prescribed in respect
  of a specific Work, the Contracting Entities sign the record of
  acceptance of the Work or notify the Contractor of refusal to accept
  the Work within 7 (seven) days after the Contractor has transferred
  the Work to the Contracting Entities. The Work or its intermediate
  result is deemed accepted by the Contracting Entities as of the moment
  when the Contracting Entities have signed the record of acceptance of
  the Work.

  In the case of refusing to accept the Work, the Contracting Entities
  submit to the Contractor a written list of non-conformities of the
  Work, indicating the deficiencies in the Work and the nature of the
  deficiencies as well as determining a term of at least 5 (five)
  working days for the elimination of the deficiencies. The Contractor
  eliminates the deficiencies described by the Contracting Entities at
  their own expense and transfers the Work to the Contracting Entities
  during the term of elimination of the deficiencies determined by the
  Contracting Entities for repeated Acceptance Testing, unless otherwise
  agreed.

7.  RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES

  The Contracting Entities have the right to:

1.  check, at any time, whether the Contractor adheres to the terms and
    conditions of the Agreement, incl. check the Work performance
    process at the place where the Contractor performs the Agreement,
    notifying the Contractor thereof two working days in advance;

2.  request from the Contractor proper, high-quality and timely
    performance and transfer of the Work in accordance with the terms
    and conditions of the Agreement;

3.  involve experts, as third parties, in actions that allow the quality
    of the Work to be checked.

  The Contracting Entities are required to:

4.  pay the Contractor remuneration for proper performance of the Work
    in accordance with the Agreement, Public Contract and invoice
    submitted by the Contractor;

5.  notify the Contractor of all the deficiencies detected in the Work;

6.  notify the Contractor of all planned and known changes that may have
    a significant impact on the performance of the Work;

7.  ensure that the information required for the performance of the Work
    is available to the Contractor;

8.  not to unreasonably hinder the Contractor’s performance of the Work;

9.  accept the Work that has been transferred by the Contractor and is
    in compliance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement and its
    annexes and Public Contract.

  The Contractor has the right to:

10. obtain from the Contracting Entities information necessary for the
    performance of the Work;

11. receive remuneration from the Contracting Entities for the properly
    performed Work under the terms and conditions and pursuant to the
    procedure provided for in the Agreement and its annexes;

12. involve additional specialists in the performance of the Agreement;

13. substitute the key person of the team for another key person of the
    team acting in the same role only with the Contracting Entities’
    written consent that the Contracting Entities will grant after
    having examined and verified the CV of the new team member,
    considering that the work experience of the new key person of the
    team acting in the same role must be equal to or more extensive than
    the work experience of the key person of the team set out in the
    Contractor’s tender, using the criteria set out in the procurement
    documents as a basis;

14. make proposals to the Contracting Entities for more effective and
    high-quality performance of the Work, submitting their proposals in
    a format that can be reproduced. The Contracting Entities examine
    the proposals and notify the Contractor of their decision to accept
    or refuse to accept the proposal within five working days;

15. verify the personnel of the Contractor in accordance with Latvian
    and Estonian regulations.

  The Contractor is required to:

16. perform the Work of high quality and in a timely manner in
    accordance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement and its
    annexes and the good procedure and best practices in the field of
    performance of the Work;

17. transfer the completed Work to the Contracting Entities in a timely
    manner;

18. start to perform the Work immediately after the Agreement and/or
    Public Contract takes effect;

19. notify the Contracting Entities immediately of any circumstances
    that may hinder the timely completion or quality of the Work;

20. ensure that the key persons (project manager and analyst) necessary
    for services that require close communication with the Contracting
    Entities (incl. analysis, regular project meetings) participate
    actively in the meetings and telephone conferences to be arranged.
    The time spent by the Contractor’s employees on transport as well as
    their transport expenses are not subject to remuneration by the
    Contracting Entities;

21. involve the key persons set out in the tender of the Simple
    Procurement in the performance of the Work within one (1) week of
    entry into the Agreement;

22. ensure that if supplementary workforce is involved in the
    Contractor’s team in addition to the mandatory key persons of the
    team and the supplementary workforce communicates directly with the
    Contracting Entities’ employees, the corresponding employee must
    have a good command of English;

23. notify the Contracting Entities in advance of their request to
    replace the key person of the team at least 14 (fourteen) calendar
    days before the planned replacement. The Contracting Entities have
    the right, in justified cases, not to agree with the new key person
    and ask that another person be appointed as the new key person,
    including if the new key person does not have work experience that
    is equal to or more extensive than that of the key person of the
    team set out in the Contractor’s tender, using the criteria set out
    in the procurement documents as a basis;

24. upon non-conformity of the Work with the terms and conditions of the
    Agreement, eliminate, at the Contracting Entities’ request, the
    respective deficiencies in the Work or submit a new Work that is in
    compliance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement and its
    annexes within the term indicated by the Contracting Entities;

25. maintain complete confidentiality with respect to third parties for
      any data and information that the Contractor has learnt in the
      course of performing the Agreement;

26. not cause any interferences in the operation of the Contracting
      Entities’ other systems or services;

27. ensure that if the Work is performed on the Contracting Entities’
      premises, the persons whom the Contractor has involved in the
      performance of the Work and who stay on the Contracting Entities’
      premises must adhere to the Contracting Entities’ internal
      procedure rules, incl. security requirements;

28. ensure that the security of the developments of the common balancing
      zone IT system is in compliance with Level 2 of OWASP ASVS 3.0 or
      newer and observe the Top Ten solutions and recommendations of
      OWASP 2018 and newer;

29. ensure that the development of the common balancing zone IT system
      is in compliance with K2T1S2 security class of ISKE of Estonia and
      the Information Technology Security Law of Latvia. If the
      Contractor uses cloud solutions, the cloud solution must be in
      compliance with the laws and standards on cybersecurity of
      Republic of Estonia and Republic of Latvia and all the established
      requirements must be observed. The Contracting Entities may carry
      out follow-up checks and the Contractor must eliminate
      deficiencies at their own expense;

30. provide the Contracting Entities with an overview of the working
      hours of the Contractor’s team in terms of days and persons on an
      ongoing basis. The Contractor’s team notes the working hours in
      Jira on a daily basis;

31. ensure that the Contracting Entities are provided with technical
      support and counselling of the superuser and technical
      administrators on issues related to the operation of the Software
      at the level of the error detection code and database and
      resolution of problems from Monday to Friday from 07:30 until
      19:30.

8.  AGREEMENT PRICE AND ITS PAYMENT

  The value of the Agreement (incl. in the case of extending the
  Agreement) shall be three hundred thousand (300,000) euros plus VAT,
  depending on the limitations and opportunities of the Contracting
  Entities. The Contracting Entities are not required to order the Work
  from the Contractor to the extent of the maximum value of the
  Agreement. The actual amount payable to the Contractor becomes clear
  after the expiry of the Agreement, and shall depend onto the amount of
  Work actually performed, expressed in working hours, multiplied by the
  applicable hourly price.

  The maximum hourly price (astronomical hour) of the performance of the
  Work is ........ (amount in words) euros plus VAT. The Contractor is
  aware that the exact hourly price of Public Contracts is provided for
  in the Public Contract to be entered into, incl. the hourly price
  under a Public Contract may not exceed the hourly price indicated in
  this clause. The Contracting Entities pay the Contractor for the
  performed Work after the Work ordered on the basis of a Public
  Contract has been performed and accepted by the Contracting Entities
  unless the Parties have agreed otherwise in the Public Contract.

  The Contracting Entities pay for the Work actually performed in
  accordance with the prices set out by the Contractor in the tender of
  the Simple Procurement and the prices agreed in the Public Contract.
  The hourly price set out in the tender is in effect during the entire
  Agreement period and will not be modified for any reason.

  Payment is made within 14 (fourteen) calendar days after the
  Contracting Entities have received a proper invoice. A prerequisite
  for the submission of an invoice is a record of acceptance of the Work
  signed by the Contracting Entities. The date of payment of an invoice
  is deemed to be the date of submission of a corresponding payment
  order to the Contracting Entities’ bank. The payments arising from the
  Agreement are transferred to the Contractor’s bank account indicated
  on the invoice. The Contractor shall issue separate invoices to each
  of the Contracting Entities, each covering half of the total amount
  payable, except if the invoice pertains to Work ordered by only one of
  the Contracting entities pursuant to article 1.13.2 of this Agreement,
  in which case the ordering Contracting Entity shall be solely
  responsible for payment.

  The Contractor is required to notify the Contracting Entities in a
  timely manner of the data and changes therein that are necessary for
  the performance of the payment obligations hereunder. If the
  Contractor breaches the notification obligation provided for in this
  clause, the Contracting Entities will not bear any liability for a
  resulting delay in payment of the fee.

  Invoices must be submitted to Elering AS as pdf file to the e-mail
  address: arved@elering.ee

  Invoices must be submitted to the AS “Conexus Baltic Grid” in the UBL
  standard* as an e-invoice format (xml format including a pdf file
  (e-invoice visualization) using one of the channels indicated below:

1.  to the e-mail address rekini@conexus.lv;

2.  using the PEPPOL network (ID 9939:40203041605);

3.  from the portal banqup.lv;

4.  using the paid or free web service of the e-invoice processing
    operator Unifiedpost.

9.  WARRANTY AND COMPLAINTS

  The Contractor guarantees that the Work is in compliance with the
  terms and conditions provided for in the Agreement and its annexes,
  Public Contract and laws of Republic of Estonia and Republic of
  Latvia, the Software Description and the conventional and reasonable
  requirements of the Contracting Entities’ principal activity within
  the agreed period of time after the start of the warranty period in
  accordance with clause 6.2 of the Agreement (hereinafter referred to
  as the Warranty and the Warranty Period).

  The Contractor provides the Work performed under a Public Contract
  with the Warranty for a period of 24 (twenty-four) months.

  The Contractor eliminates all the deficiencies that become evident
  during the Warranty Period and are covered by the Warranty at their
  own expense, bears the expenses related to the installation of a new
  version of the Work and makes a correct version of the Work along with
  the installation manual available to the Contracting Entities:

1.  in the case of a warranty incident that does not hinder the use of a
    part of the Work (the use of a part of the Work is not blocked)
    (hereafter – Non-critical error) – within 30 calendar days of the
    working day following the submission of the complaint or within the
    term separately agreed by the Parties;

2.  in the case of a warranty incident due to which the use of a part of
    the Work is impossible (the use of the Work or an essential part
    thereof is blocked) (hereafter - Crash) – the Contractor responds on
    any day from 7:30 until 19:30 within four hours from submission of
    complaint, submitting an assessment of the deadline for the
    elimination of the problem and liquidates the error or deficiency no
    later than within the next working day or within the term separately
    agreed by the Parties;

3.  in the case of errors and deficiencies in the Work that resulted in
    the leak, transformation or loss of data in the Software (hereafter
    – Critical error) – the Contractor responds on working days from
    7:30 until 19:30 within four hours from submission of complaint,
    submitting an assessment of the deadline for the elimination of the
    problem and liquidates the error or deficiency no later than within
    the next working day or, by way of exception, within deadlines
    agreed upon with the Contracting Entities. Within two working days
    of the elimination of the error or deficiency, the Contractor’s
    project manager submits a detailed description of the reasons for
    the problem to the Contracting Entities and indicates the actions to
    be taken in the future in order for the error or deficiency not to
    recur again.

  Response times in clauses 10.3.1, 10.3.2 and 10.3.3, the penalty in
  clause 11.6 are valid only during the term of contract.

  In the course of repairing or replacing the Work, the Contractor
  agrees, at the Contracting Entities’ request, to provide the
  Contracting Entities’ customers with temporary measures or repairs
  that would allow the impact of the aforementioned deviations or errors
  on the use and functionality of the Work to be minimised.

  If the Contractor does not eliminate a deficiency covered by the
  Warranty within the term provided for in clause 11.3, the Contracting
  Entities have the right to eliminate the deficiency in the Work
  themselves or have it eliminated by a third party. The Contracting
  Entities have the right to request that the Contractor compensate for
  all the expenses related to the elimination of the deficiency in the
  Work. The Contracting Entities may set off a corresponding claim
  against the Contractor’s claim for remuneration, notifying the
  Contractor thereof.

  The Warranty covers all the deficiencies that became evident in the
  Work during the Warranty Period, except the deficiencies caused by the
  hardware used by the Contracting Entities. It is presumed in respect
  of each deficiency that becomes evident during the Warranty Period
  that the deficiency is covered by the Warranty. If a dispute arises
  between the Parties concerning the quality of the Work accepted by the
  Contracting Entities or as to whether the root cause of a deficiency
  and/or the corresponding deficiency is covered by the Warranty, both
  Parties have the right to request that an independent expert
  assessment be designated and the person conducting the aforesaid
  expert assessment will be designated by agreement between the Parties
  and the expenses of the expert assessment will be paid by the Party
  who requests the expert assessment. If the results of the expert
  assessment confirm that the claim filed by the Party who requested the
  expert assessment is correct, the other Party agrees to compensate for
  the expenses and other damage incurred in connection with it (incl.
  the expenses related to the expert assessment) by the Party that
  requested the expert assessment.

  The Warranty also covers the incidents where the use of the Work by
  the Contracting Entities is hindered due to claims arising from third
  parties’ copyright or other intellectual property rights or a breach
  thereof. In such a case the Contractor is required to eliminate the
  legal impediments to the use of the Work under the same terms and
  conditions that apply to the correction of technical errors. This
  provision does not limit any other liability of the Contractor arising
  from copyright breach.

  Correction of an error under the Warranty covers repair or
  modification of all the parts of the Software or other Work, including
  supporting documentation.

  The Contractor provides the Work replaced or repaired during the
  Warranty Period with a new Warranty of the same duration as the
  initial Warranty.

11. LIABILITY OF THE PARTIES AND TERMINATION OF THE AGREEMENT

    1.  A Party is liable for damage caused to the other Party by breach
        of the Agreement and is required to compensate the other Party
        for the expenses and other damage related to the breach of the
        Agreement.

    2.  The Parties are liable for breaching their obligations hereunder
        unless such a breach is excusable. A breach of an obligation is
        excusable if the Party breached the obligation due to Force
        majeure. It is presumed that a breach of an obligation is not
        excusable.

    3.  Under Force majeure the Parties understand circumstances that
        are beyond the control of a Party and, following the principle
        of reasonableness, it could not have been expected that the
        Party would take them into account, avoid them or overcome the
        impediment or consequences thereof at the time of entry into the
        Agreement.

    4.  The Party whose actions in performing the obligations hereunder
        are impeded due to Force majeure are required to notify the
        other Party thereof immediately in writing.

    5.  The Contractor has the right to request that the Contracting
        Entities pay default interest on overdue amounts at the rate of
        0.15% (zero point one five percent) per calendar day of delay,
        but no more than 20% (twenty percent) of the remuneration
        payable to the Contractor under the Public Contract related to
        the delayed payment. To receive default interest, the Contractor
        must submit to the Contracting Entities a written claim and
        corresponding invoice. The Contractor may not request that the
        Contracting Entities pay default interest on default interest.

    6.  Upon delay in the transfer of the Work or stage of the Work
        provided for in a Public Contract, the Contractor must pay the
        Contracting Entities a contractual penalty at the rate of 0.2%
        (zero point two percent) of the amount of the remuneration for
        the stage or Work per day of delay[1]. Upon delay in the
        transfer of any subsequent stages, the contractual penalty is
        calculated at the rate specified in this clause on a cumulative
        basis – in the case of late transfer of each subsequent stage of
        the work, the contractual penalty is calculated on the value of
        all the previous stages.

    7.  Upon delay in the transfer of the Work and/or a stage thereof
        provided for in a Public Contract for more than 30 (thirty) days
        or if, considering the circumstances, it is evident beyond
        reasonable doubt that the Contractor is unable to complete the
        Work or a stage thereof in such a way that the delay in the
        transfer would not exceed 30 (thirty) days, the Contracting
        Entities may terminate the Agreement and request that the
        Contractor pay, in addition to the contractual penalty specified
        in clause 11.6, a contractual penalty of 5% (five percent) of
        the amount of the remuneration set out in the Public Contract.
        In such a case, the Contracting Entities have the right to
        continue calculating the contractual penalty set out in
        clause 11.6 until the cancellation takes effect.

    8.  If the Contractor does not eliminate the deficiencies in the
        Work within the term granted to them by the Contracting Entities
        in accordance with clause 7.3 of the Agreement, the Contracting
        Entities may themselves eliminate the deficiencies or have these
        eliminated by a third party and request that the Contractor
        compensate for the reasonable expenses incurred to this end or
        reduce the remuneration payable to the Contractor for the Work
        to be performed on the basis of a Public Contract by amount that
        the Contracting Entities paid to the third party for the
        elimination of the deficiencies in the Work.

    9.  If the Contractor breaches the obligation provided for in
        clause 7.3 of the Agreement, the Contracting Entities have the
        right, in addition to that provided for in clause 11.8 of the
        Agreement, to request that the Contractor pay and the Contractor
        has the obligation to pay a contractual penalty of up to 70
        (seventy) euros per respective instance.

    10. If the Contractor delays with the performance of the obligation
        to eliminate the deficiencies of the Work or stage as provided
        for in clause 7.3 of the Agreement for more than 30 (thirty)
        days or if, considering the circumstances, it is evident beyond
        reasonable doubt that the Contractor is unable to perform the
        obligation provided for in clause 7.3 of the Agreement in such a
        way that the delay would not exceed 30 (thirty) days, the
        Contracting Entities may terminate the Agreement and request
        that the Contractor pay, in addition to the contractual penalty
        set out in clause 11.9, a contractual penalty of 5% (five
        percent) of the amount of the remuneration set out in the Public
        Contract. In such a case, the Contracting Entities has the right
        to calculate the contractual penalty set out in clause 11.9 for
        every day until the cancellation takes effect per instance of
        breach.

    11. If the Contractor breaches the warranty obligation provided for
        in clause 10 of the Agreement, the Contracting Entities has the
        right to request that the Contractor pay and the Contractor has
        the obligation to pay a contractual penalty to the following
        extent:

        1.  upon exceeding the terms provided for in clause 10.3.1 of
            the Agreement, 200 (two hundred) euros each month once per
            respective warranty incident;

        2.  upon exceeding the terms provided for in clause 10.3.2 of
            the Agreement, 150 (one hundred and fifty) euros per
            calendar day of delay in the elimination of the error or
            deficiency;

        3.  upon exceeding the terms provided for in clause 10.3.3 of
            the Agreement, 100 (one hundred) euros per calendar day of
            delay in the elimination of the error or deficiency or
            submission of a description of the problem or further
            actions.

    12. If the Contractor breaches the terms and conditions related to
        the processing of the personal data specified in clause 14 or
        the duty of confidentiality specified in clause 13 of the
        Agreement, the Contracting Entities has the right to request a
        contractual penalty of 5,000 (five thousand) euros per breach.

    13. To receive the contractual penalty, the Contracting Entities
        must submit a written claim to the Contractor. The Contracting
        Entities have the right to set off the contractual penalty
        against the invoices payable by the Contracting Entities to the
        Contractor.

    14. Granting an additional term to the Contractor for the
        performance of an obligation provided for in the Agreement does
        not release the Contractor from the obligation to pay any
        contractual penalty related to exceeding the term as provided
        for in the Agreement, in the amount accrued in the period
        between original deadline and the granting of extension.

    15. The Contracting Entities have the right to withdraw from the
        Agreement if the Contractor delays with the commencement of the
        Work by 7 (seven) days or more.

    16. In addition to other grounds provided for in the Agreement, the
        Contracting Entities have the right to cancel the Agreement on
        an extraordinary basis in the following cases:

        1.  a bankruptcy petition is submitted or bankruptcy,
            reorganisation, liquidation or any other similar proceedings
            are commenced in respect of the Contractor;

        2.  in other cases provided for in legal acts unless the
            Agreement has provided another regulation.

    17. If the Contracting Entities cancel the Agreement due to
        circumstances occasioned by the Contractor, the Contractor
        agrees to compensate the Contracting Entities for all the damage
        related thereto (incl. rising cost of the Work, damage due to
        delay in the transfer of the Work, damage to the Work already
        performed and expenses on re-doing the Work, etc.).

    18. The Contracting Entities have the right to cancel the Agreement
        at any time without stating the reason, notifying the Contractor
        thereof at least 10 (ten) days in advance. Upon cancellation of
        the Agreement on the basis set out in this clause, the
        Contracting Entities are required to pay the Contractor for the
        Work actually performed until the submission of the declaration
        of cancellation. Upon receiving a declaration of cancellation,
        the Contractor is required to immediately suspend the
        performance of the Work (except if the Contracting Entities have
        made a request in the declaration for the completion of the Work
        to a certain extent).

    19. If the Agreement is cancelled, the Contractor is required to
        grant the Contracting Entities the Licence for all the outcomes
        of the Work created on the basis of the Agreement and assign the
        rights related to the outcomes of the Work to the Contracting
        Entities (to the extent not granted earlier) in accordance with
        the provisions of Chapter 5 of the Agreement.

    20. The Contractor has the right to cancel the Agreement on an
        extraordinary basis solely in the following cases:

        1.  the Contracting Entities delay with payment for 30 (thirty)
            days or more after receiving a written reminder from the
            Contractor;

        2.  a bankruptcy petition is submitted or bankruptcy,
            reorganisation, liquidation or any other similar proceedings
            are commenced in respect of the Contracting Entities.

    21. Payment of the contractual penalty or compensation for the
        damage caused does not release the default Party from the
        performance of their obligations hereunder. Payment of the
        contractual penalty does not release the default Party from
        their obligation to compensate for the damage caused to the
        other Party. For the avoidance of doubt, when compensating for
        damage, under damage arisen to the Contracting Entities the
        Parties understand, among other things, the sanctions or
        penalties imposed on the Contracting Entities in connection with
        breaches of obligations provided for in legal acts, for example
        breaches of personal data processing requirements or
        intellectual property rights, if they had been caused by the
        Contractor’s failure to fulfil and/or breach of the requirements
        or obligations provided for in this Agreement or law.

    22. The Contractor is liable for actions of the persons that they
        have involved in the performance of the Agreement in the same
        manner as they are liable for their own actions, being liable
        for breaches of obligations effective in respect of the
        Contractor and committed by such persons in the same manner as
        they are liable for their own breaches.

    23. The liability of the Parties in the case of each breach of a
        Public Contract is limited, in the maximum rate, to the maximum
        value of the Agreement set out in clause 9.1 of the Agreement.
        The liability is not limited if the obligation was breached
        intentionally or due to gross negligence or if the limitation of
        the liability is not permitted on any other legal ground.

12. TERM OF THE AGREEMENT

    1.  The Agreement takes effect as of its signing by both Parties and
        remains in effect for twenty-four (24) calendar months as of
        entry into the Agreement. The Agreement may be extended for an
        additional twelve (12) calendar months or until the maximum
        value of the Agreement has been reached, whichever arrives
        first. The extension of the Agreement is a right of the
        Contracting Entities. To extend the Agreement, the Contracting
        Entities submit a corresponding written notice to the
        Contractor.

    2.  The agreements set out in the Agreement that have been meant to
        essentially remain in effect after the expiry of the Agreement,
        incl. agreements related to intellectual property rights as set
        out in the Agreement, will remain in effect without a term after
        the expiry of the Agreement for any reason and the Parties have
        no right to cancel or withdraw from such agreements. The Parties
        have, by agreement, excluded all the statutory grounds for the
        termination or cancellation of or withdrawal from corresponding
        agreements.

    3.  The Agreement will only be amended on the basis of written
        agreement between the Parties. Any amendments to the Agreement
        that have not been formalised in writing shall be null and void.

    4.  The declaration of invalidity or establishment of voidness,
        voidability or unenforceability of any provisions of the
        Agreement by a court or any other competent authority does not
        render the remaining part of the Agreement invalid.

13. CONFIDENTIALITY

    1.  The Parties agree to maintain secrecy of any information that
        they have learnt in the course of performing the Agreement about
        the other Party, their customers, business partners or other
        third parties who have contractual relationships with the Party
        (hereinafter the Confidential Information), except for
        information that is already public or the non-confidentiality of
        which the other Party has confirmed in writing.

    2.  Any personal and security data learnt in the course of
        performing the Agreement as well as other information and
        circumstances (incl. business secrets) are confidential
        information. Reproducing, selling, offering, disclosing or
        disseminating corresponding information by the Contractor or a
        person related to the Contractor is regarded as a fundamental
        breach of the Agreement.

    3.  The Parties agree not to disclose the Confidential Information
        to any third parties and not to use it for business or any other
        purposes without the other Party’s written consent. A Party is
        required to take any necessary measures to avoid situations
        where the Confidential Information may fall into the hands of
        persons not entitled to that.

    4.  Upon expiry of the Agreement, the Contractor is required to
        return to the Contracting Entities or destroy the data media
        that contain the Confidential Information and have been received
        from the Contracting Entities during the term of the Agreement.

    5.  The confidentiality requirement is indefinite.

14. PERSONAL DATA PROCESSING

    1.  Upon performing the Agreement, the Contractor, who shall be data
        processor on behalf of the Contracting Entities, which shall be
        data controllers, is required to observe all the appropriate
        legal acts regulating the protection of personal data, incl.
        Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
        Council of 27 April 2016 (hereinafter the General Data
        Protection Regulation), the terms and conditions provided for in
        this Agreement, the Contracting Entities’ privacy notice and
        Contracting Entities’ other appropriate documents concerning the
        processing of personal data. If the Contracting Entities’
        privacy notice or the Contracting Entities’ other documents
        concerning the processing of personal data are amended or
        modified, the Contracting Entities will notify the Contractor of
        the amendments made.

    2.  The Contractor is required to ensure, during the entire term of
        performance of the Agreement, protection of the personal data
        related to the performance of the Agreement, incl. ensure, upon
        processing, the integrity, availability and confidentiality of
        the personal data and apply appropriate technical and
        organisational measures in order to ensure an appropriate level
        of security. In assessing the appropriate level of security,
        account is taken in particular of the risks that are presented
        by processing, in particular from accidental or unlawful
        destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or
        access to personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise
        processed. In situations where the Contracting Entities has not
        provided the Contractor, in the course of ordering the Work,
        with detailed instructions about the protection of personal
        data, the Contractor also applies all necessary measures in
        order to ensure that their employees and/or persons who perform
        the Work on behalf of the Contractor, who have access to the
        personal data being processed in the course of performing the
        Work, process the personal data in compliance with the terms and
        conditions specified in this Agreement and arising from the
        legal acts referred to therein.

    3.  In addition to the fulfilment of the terms and conditions
        specified in previous clauses, the Contractor is required to
        observe the following requirements:

        1.  it is prohibited for the Contractor to transmit or grant
            access to the data obtained upon performing the Agreement or
            make them available in any other manner to any third
            parties;

        2.  the access to personal data granted by the Contracting
            Entities for the performance of the Agreement gives the
            Contractor no right to further process the data for any
            other purposes (incl. the Contractor may not create,
            supplement or change, on the basis thereof, their databases
            that they use for actions other than performing to the
            Contracting Entities the Work on the basis of this
            Agreement), store them or perform other operations or
            actions not directly related to the performance of the Work
            specified in this Agreement and necessary for the
            performance of the Work;

        3.  the Contractor maintains a documented overview of the
            operations of processing of personal data related to the
            performance of the Agreement, incl. has an overview of the
            persons who process personal data in the course of
            performing the Work. Having an overview must have been
            performed in a manner that allows the Contracting Entities
            to conduct checks or establish possible circumstances of
            personal data processing breaches in the course of
            performing the Agreement;

        4.  in the case of a breach related to the processing of
            personal data, the Contractor is required to notify the
            Contracting Entities of such a breach without any
            unreasonable delay after learning of the breach;

        5.  if the Contractor has had to create databases of the data
            obtained in the course of performing the Agreement or has
            processed personal data in another equivalent manner and the
            personal data are in the Contractor’s possession, the
            Contractor is required, upon expiry of the Agreement, to
            destroy the data obtained from the Contracting Entities,
            incl. the data used upon creating the databases, according
            to the Contracting Entities’ instructions and provide the
            Contracting Entities with information about the destruction;

        6.  the Contractor shall ensure that personal data being
            processed under this Agreement and the technical
            infrastructure facilitating same are only accessible to duly
            authorized employees of the Contractor;

        7.  the Contractor shall ensure that said employees are
            committed to confidentiality regarding the personal data
            being processed, and have received instruction about the
            Contractor’s obligations in data processing and have
            undertaken to adhere to these restrictions.

    4.  The Contractor is liable for and is able to prove the fulfilment
        of the terms and conditions concerning the processing of
        personal data as specified in this clause. If the Contractor is
        unable to prove the application of measures for the protection
        of personal data and the fulfilment of the terms and conditions
        of the General Data Protection Regulation, it will be deemed
        that the Contractor has breached a corresponding obligation and
        this Agreement in respect of the processing of personal data.

    5.  The Contracting Entities have the right to perform checks
        concerning the observance of the requirements for the processing
        of personal data and order from a third party an audit or a
        compliance check analysis or another appropriate check to assess
        the compliance of the Contractor’s activities with the terms and
        conditions of processing of personal data specified in this
        Agreement. The Contractor may not refuse or hinder the conduct
        of the check specified in the previous sentence or make its
        conduct difficult. Making any hindrances to the conduct of the
        check by Contracting Entities or making the same impossible is
        deemed to be a fundamental breach of this Agreement.

15. CYBER SECURITY REQUIREMENTS

    1.  The Contractor confirms that staff involved in the development
        of the product are aware of cyber security risks and comply with
        modern cyber hygiene requirements.

    2.  If the Contractor uses open-source libraries, the Contractor
        uses actively maintained open-source libraries.

    3.  The Contractor ensures that it uses an active vulnerability
        management and that vulnerabilities found within the scope of
        The Agreement are eliminated in a timely manner free of charge:

        1.  critical vulnerabilities - within 5 working day or within
              time stipulated in a separate agreement with the Customer;

        2.  high-risk vulnerabilities - within 10 working days or within
              time stipulated in a separate agreement with the Customer;

        3.  medium risk vulnerabilities - within 30 working days or
              within time stipulated in a separate agreement with the
              Customer.

    4.  The Contractor also provides vulnerability management of used
        third-party libraries.

    5.  The Contractor ensures the encryption as follows:

        1.  equipment (e.g. modems, routers, VPN hubs) used for
            encryption must originate from a NATO, European Union or
            European Economic Area member state;

        2.  at least AES 256 algorithms are used for symmetric
            information encryption;

        3.  at least SHA2-256 algorithms are used for information
            integrity checks;

        4.  for asymmetric encryption, authentication and key exchange,
            at least elliptic curve methods with keys of 256 bits length
            and curves P-256, P-384, or P521 are used;

        5.  the validity of the encryption certificate shall not exceed
            one year;

        6.  the validity period of encryption certificates should
            provide the possibility to monitor them with automatic
            tools.

    6.  The Contractor shall maintain and provide software bill of
        materials accordingly to the EU Cyber Resilience Act in a
        commonly used machine-readable format, covering at least
        top-level dependencies.

16. OTHER PROVISIONS

    1.  The Parties are guided by the respective legal acts of the
        Republic of Estonia in all issues not governed by the Agreement.

    2.  The Parties are not permitted to assign their rights and
        obligations assumed hereunder to any third parties without the
        other Party’s consent.

    3.  The Agreement and information obtained in the course of
        performing the Agreement are not subject to disclosure to any
        third parties without the other Party’s consent unless such
        disclosure is mandatory for the Party pursuant to legal acts. As
        an exception, the Parties have the right to disclose the
        information to providers of finance, advisers (incl. auditors)
        and companies belonging to the group if this is necessary for
        the proper and effective performance of the Agreement, and the
        Party imposes the same prohibition on disclosure on such
        persons.

    4.  The headings in the Agreement have been inserted for convenience
        of reference only and do not in any way limit or affect the
        meaning or interpretation of the provisions of the Agreement.
        Unless the context of the Agreement requires otherwise, words in
        the singular refer to the same in the plural and vice versa.

    5.  The Parties agree to apply all proper measures to resolve any
        points of dispute arising from the Agreement by way of
        negotiations without damaging the rights and interests of the
        other Party arising from the Agreement and law. Failing
        agreement, all points of dispute arising from the Agreement will
        be resolved in accordance with the procedure prescribed by legal
        acts, applying to this end the substantive and procedural law of
        the Republic of Estonia.

    6.  The Agreement is signed by digital signature, which is, in
        accordance with section 80 of the General Part of the Civil Code
        Act, deemed to be equal to the written form of signing. The date
        of entry into the Agreement is the date when the last signature
        is given.

Signatures of Parties’ representatives:

  ----------------------------------- -----------------------------------
  Contracting Entities:               Contractor:

                                      

  Digitally signed                    Digitally signed

  [name of the representative]        [name of the representative]
  ----------------------------------- -----------------------------------

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

  Digitally signed

  [name of the representative]
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] If the performance of the Work to be ordered on the basis of a
Public Contract has not been divided into stages.
