17.11.2025 14:00 information session memo

Questions
The contracting authority described the qualification conditions on the slides, which raised the following questions:
Question 1: That presumably is per consortia, if going that way, not every company in consortium?
Answer: Yes, the qualification requirements must be met for the consortium/joint tenderer. The turnover can be
summed up as members of the consortium, who are marked as joint tenderers or subcontractors in the tenders.
Reference contracts can be also combined with the experience of consortium members who are listed in the tenders
as joint tenderers or subcontractors.

Question 2: How many companies are chosen?
Answer: Framework agreement will be signed with up to 7 tenderers in lot 1-2 and with an unspecified number of
partners in lot 3.

Question 3: Do the Project Manager & Consultant for LOT1 and LOT2 have to be different, or can they be the same
persons with the same qualifications?
Similar question 4: Can same person perform a role across multiple lots (i.e. same project manager for lot 1 and lot
2?)
Answer to both: Yes. In the same lot there has to be different persons.

Presenters comment: Ask all questions through Procurement Register, it will be anonymous.
Clarification: I assure you that all questioners will remain anonymous and all answers will be made public. If you have
registered for the procurement, you will also receive notifications when new questions and answers are published.

Question 5: What is a NATO cyber policy certification?
Answer: Like other certificates, this is an optional/non-mandatory qualification. A NATO cyber policy certification
could be the passing of a cybersecurity related training course organised by a NATO or a NATO-accredited body.

Question 6: Can same company be part of different consortia in different lots?

Answer: If the tenderer can also submit a tender alone, then submitting several tenders may indicate an agreement
that harms competition. This applies in one part of the procurement. Submitting a tender with a consortium may be
appropriate if, for example, there is no capacity or sufficient team alone or the turnover requirement would not be
met. However, if there is a desire to submit several tenders for the same part, then it is highly likely that this is an
agreement that harms competition and in such a case there is a basis for elimination under Section 95(4)(5) of the
Public Procurement Act. However, it should be borne in mind that since this is a discretionary decision of the
contracting authority, the tenderer will not be automatically eliminated in such a case. The contracting authority
assesses the circumstances and the tenderers' explanation of why they offered in this way and decides based on this.
E.g. if you have a small company (but cannot participate alone, e.g. because the qualification requirements are not
met) and want to participate in all three parts, for example, you are allowed to be part of three different consortia.

Question 7: can we apply as one company or it has to be a consortium?
Answer: you can be sole tenderer or a joint tenderer, it is up to you and how to meet the criteria. You must bear in
mind the rules of the competition mentioned above.

Question 8: In the Collaboration vision: how is a third party defined
Similar question 9: Follow-up Q to the latter: so a 3rd party is NOT a beneficiary (ie we are not to describe a possible
relationship with the UA recipients)?
Answer: We do not limit or impose on you how you should draft your vision of our collaboration. However, third
parties can be bodies that could play a significant role in the actual implementation of the collaboration. They could
be your subsidiaries, suppliers, partners, representatives etc. in a region or country or anyone else who could enhance
(or limit) your ability to implement the projects there and whom you would foresee as relevant and worth mentioning.

Question 10: Please clarify the rules for reference agreements again. Do they have to be projects made in Ukraine?
Answer: The requirement in question (lot 1): The tenderer must have duly completed at least 3 contracts within the
36 months preceding the public procurement, of which the tenderer has: 1) completed a contract with a total value
of 50,000 euros excluding VAT ; 2) the subject of the contract is similar to the field that is part of the specific public
procurement. The required obligations must be fulfilled within the aforementioned period, i.e. the end dates of the
obligations must be within 36 months.

17.11.2025 list of participants in the information session:
1.

Siim Alatalu (ESTDEV)

2.

Andres Ääremaa (ESTDEV)

3.

Merily Tamm (ESTDEV/ Law Firm Matteus)

4.

Agnes Kuusalu (Finest)

5.

Aleksandr Doronin

6.

Alona Savchuk (Impact Force)

7.

GC

8.

Hela Cherif

9.

Ian Nelis (Helmes)

10. Imbi Nõgisto (Cybernetica AS)
11. Laura Kask (Proud Engineers)
12. Liis Vaino
13. Liisa Past
14. Madis Tõnuri
15. Margareta Telliskivi
16. Merle Maigre
17. Olesya Danylchenko
18. Oskar Gross
19. Peter-Herman Kotli
20. Petro Klymenko
21. Pille Neider-Kuusalu
22. Raigo Õunapuu
23. Ranno Erala
24. Tarmo Kiivit (Helmes)
25. Tarmo Meresmaa (EE)
26. Vitalii Kalaida
27. Yevhenii Shakotko

