FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT PART …1
Estonian Centre for International Development (hereinafter referred to as the
customer or contracting authority), registry code 90015347, Tatari street 1, 10116
Tallinn, who is represented by a member of the management board Klen Jäärats
and
________, registry code ________, address ________, who is represented by a member of the
management board ________ (hereinafter contractor 1 or party),
________, registry code ________, address ________, who is represented by a member of the
management board ________ (hereinafter contractor 2 or party),
________, registry code ________, address ________, who is represented by a member of the
management board ________ (hereinafter contractor 3 or party) and
All contractors are entered
hereinafter separately or jointly by the parties, have entered into this framework agreement
(hereinafter the agreement) in the following:
1. Purpose and subject-matter of the agreement
1.1. The purpose of the framework agreement concluded on the basis of the public
procurement "Information and Cyber Security Matters and Services" (with reference
number 301036, part ...) organised by the contracting authority is to agree on the
manner in which procurement contracts are concluded between the
contracting authority and the partners of the framework agreement for the
ordering of works that are the subject of the framework agreement during the validity
of the framework agreement.
1.2. The framework agreement does not oblige the customer to order the works or services.
1.3. The validity of the framework agreement is 48 months or until the performance of the
obligations or the termination of the framework agreement or the fulfilment of the
monetary amount of the framework agreement.
1.4. In addition to the state budget, the framework agreement may also be financed from
foreign funds (i.e. financial resources outside the budget of the contracting authority).
2. General Terms and Conditions
2.1. All annexes and procurement documents, as well as the tenders submitted by the
contractors in the public procurement and written notices between the parties, which
are not signed separately as annexes to the framework agreement, are considered to
be inseparable parts of the framework agreement.
2.2. If the term of the procurement contract differs from the term of the framework
agreement, the term of the procurement contract shall prevail. If the terms and
conditions in the annexes to the agreement differ from the terms of the agreement, the
term of the agreement shall prevail.
2.3. In the course of the performance of the framework agreement, additional conditions
may be agreed upon if they are necessary to meet the requirements arising from the
terms and conditions of financing.
1 This framework agreement project is for parts/lots 1 and 2

1

2.4. If there are additional conditions related to the financing of the works to be performed
on the basis of the public contract, the contractor is obliged to comply with the
requirements arising from the use of financial resources announced in the
procurement contract, including the use of the symbols required in the terms and
conditions of the programme.
2.5. The parties shall cooperate in order to perform the framework agreement and the
procurement contracts concluded on the basis thereof and to achieve these objectives.
The parties undertake to make all necessary efforts to perform the procurement
contract on time and in accordance with the agreements.
2.6. The parties may, by agreement, involve an independent expert or auditor accepted by
both parties to assess the quality of the works or the acceptance of the works. If the
contracting authority's assessment of the quality of the work or the acceptance of the
work proves to be unjustified as a result of the expert assessment, the contracting
authority shall compensate for the costs of the expert assessment. If the expert
assessment confirms the customer's assessment of quality or acceptance of the work,
the costs of the expert assessment will be borne by the contractor.
2.7. A party has the right to make proposals to the other party to improve the quality of the
performance of procurement contracts. If a party has submitted an inquiry to the other
party in a matter related to the performance of the procurement contract, the party is
obliged to respond to it (provide relevant feedback) as soon as possible, but no later
than within 5 working days, unless the request requires additional analysis or
systematisation of information.
2.8. The parties are obliged to participate in working meetings in order to solve problems
that have arisen in the course of work and to exchange information at the customer's
premises or virtually. Participation in working meetings is not remunerated by the
contracting authority, unless otherwise agreed in the procurement contract.
2.9. The languages of performance of the agreement are Estonian and English, among
other things, they are also the languages of concluding procurement contracts,
working meetings and other communication, and documenting the works. The parties
may agree on the need to perform the agreement in other languages, but a project
manager who speaks English and the ability to communicate and document in
Estonian must be ensured (an interpreter is also suitable).
3. Rights and obligations of the parties
3.1. The contractor undertakes:
3.1.1. perform the agreement on the terms and to the extent agreed upon in the
procurement contract, including ensuring the timely start, performance,
completion and delivery of the works to the contracting authority;
3.1.2. ensure the availability of the resources necessary for the performance of the
procurement contract, the high professional level of the contractors and the very
good knowledge of the necessary technology and methodologies, have suitable
environments for the performance of the contract, including everything related to
it, including the licenses of the software used, or use the customer's existing
shared environments;
3.1.3. cooperate with third parties keeping in mind the customer's needs (e.g. with a
business customer, other development partners, etc.);
3.1.4. immediately inform the contracting authority of any circumstances hindering
the performance of the procurement contract that interfere with the proper
performance of the public contract;
2

3.1.5. be guided by the guidelines and rules of the contracting authority in achieving
the objectives of the contract, contacting the contracting authority for this
purpose, if necessary;
3.1.6. take into account that in order to perform the procurement contract, it may be
necessary to modify and supplement the existing code and ensure the integrity of
processes and functionality after the code has been changed or supplemented;
3.1.7. in the case of work ordered on an hourly basis, submit time reports for the
performance of the procurement contract to the customer (each team member
personally);
3.1.8. provide support to the customer regarding the work performed, including
offering consultation and training until the end of the warranty period;
3.1.9. perform the procurement contract with high quality and in accordance with
good practices and practices in the field. The contracting authority assumes that
the contractor is a professional in the field of cyber security who understands and
consciously assumes the risk of the fulfilment of the functional and non-functional
requirements of the procurement contract and the achievability of the result. As a
result, the contractor is also subject to the obligation to perform works that have
not been agreed upon in the public contract, but which, by their nature, belong to
the works related to the public contract. The performance of these works is not
subject to separate remuneration, and the contractor performs the described work
within the framework of the performance of the procurement contract;
3.1.10. immediately notify the contracting authority of a cyber incident against the
contractor and, at the contractor's request, submit a cyber incident report to the
contracting authority;
3.1.11. notify in a format that can be reproduced in writing of any interest that may
cause a conflict of interest in the performance of the contract;
3.1.12. not to transfer personal data obtained in the course of the performance of the
procurement contract outside the territory of the Member States of the European
Union, the countries of the European Economic Community and the country
where the project is located without the express written consent of the contracting
authority;
3.1.13. use and process the personal data received in the course of the performance of
the procurement contract only for the performance of the contract and on the
basis of documented instructions from the customer, unless the contractor is
obliged to process the information under the law applicable to the contractor. In
the latter case, the contractor shall inform the contracting authority of the
existence of such an obligation before processing the information, unless such
notification is prohibited by the law applicable to the contractor on grounds of
overriding public interest.
3.2. The contractor has the right to:
3.2.1. receive remuneration for the performance of the procurement contract to the
extent and in accordance with the procedure agreed in the procurement contract;
3.2.2. use subcontractors for the performance of the contract, having previously
agreed in writing with the customer. The contractor is responsible for the actions
and omissions of subcontractors before the contracting authority;
3.2.3. to transfer the right to issue invoices to a third party without concluding an
amendment to the contract, if they have submitted a notice to the customer to that
effect;
3.3. The customer undertakes:

3

3.3.1. pay the contractor for the work in accordance with the terms and procedures set
out in the contract;
3.3.2. provide the contractor with clear and timely instructions and information
necessary for the performance of the work, which may contribute to the
achievement of the best result of the work;
3.3.3. immediately, but no later than within two working days from the occurrence of
the relevant circumstances, inform the contractor in writing of the occurrence of
such circumstances that may hinder the performance of the work.
3.4. The customer has the right to:
3.4.1. always monitor the performance of the procurement contract and provide the
contractor with mandatory instructions in this regard;
3.4.2. refuse to pay the remuneration in part or in full if the contractor failed to carry
out the proper work by the agreed deadline and the breach by the contractor is not
objectively justified;
3.4.3. to involve other state authorities of the contracting authority in providing
information for the performance of the contract, in the role of payer and/or quality
control of work. The involvement of a third party by the contracting authority
cannot be regarded as an amendment of the framework agreement within the
meaning of the Public Procurement Act.
4. Handover and acceptance of work
4.1. The contractor performs the work in accordance with the procurement contract and
its annexes, which are announced within the framework of the mini-competition.
4.2. The contractor submits the completed work to the customer's contact person for
review and submission of proposals. The contracting authority shall review the work
of the submitted stage within 10 working days from the delivery of the work and submit
its comments to the contractor. If necessary, a meeting between the contractor and the
customer will be arranged.
4.3. The contractor shall make the necessary corrections at its own expense within the final
version of the Work or any other reasonable period specified by the Contracting
authority. The parties then sign a deed of delivery and acceptance of the work,
confirming that the work has been delivered, reviewed and accepted.
4.4. The documents prepared based on the procurement contract shall be handed over to
the contracting authority in a correctly formatted manner and in the language
specified in the procurement documents of the mini-competition (English or
Estonian). The documents are submitted in digital format, and the format of the
documents is agreed upon by the parties during the performance of the contract.
4.5. On behalf of the customer, the acts of delivery and acceptance of the work are signed
by the contact person specified in the contract.
4.6. By agreement of the parties, the deadlines specified in the procurement contract may
be changed if this is necessitated by unforeseen circumstances at the time of
conclusion of the procurement contract and the change of letters is necessary for the
performance of the work of higher quality. Among other things, the contractor has the
right to make a proposal to the contracting authority to amend the deadlines if this is
caused by a breach of the contracting authority's contractual obligations, and the
contracting authority has the right to reject the contractor's proposal to extend the
deadlines if this is caused by a breach of the contractor's contractual obligations.

4

5. Fee and terms of payment
5.1. During the validity of the framework agreement, the maximum hourly rate shall be the
following rates, excluding VAT, according to the tenders:
5.1.1. contractor 1 one hourly fee __ euros excl. VAT;
5.1.2. contractor 2 one hourly fee __ euros excl. VAT;
5.1.3. The fees of all contractors will be entered
5.2. The cost of one working hour presented in the composition of the tender will be
indexed for the first time from 01.02.2027. As of 1st of February of each calendar year,
the cost of one working hour is indexed to mini-competitions conducted during the
following 12 months, i.e. the price per hour of work does not change within the
framework of valid procurement contracts and the indexed price can be offered in a
mini-competition after indexation. Indexation takes place based on the consumer
price index, i.e. the maximum cost of one working hour increases or decreases by the
change in the consumer price index of the full calendar year preceding the moment of
indexation. At most, the unit price may increase by 20% of the initially presented unit
price because of indexation over the entire period of the contract. In the case of a
negative consumer price index, the cost of one working hour is reduced according to
the change in the consumer price index, but not less than the cost of one working hour
agreed upon at the conclusion of the contract.
5.3. The volume of the framework agreement is a maximum of xxx2 euros excluding VAT,
which will be summed up based on all procurement contracts concluded with
contractors.
5.4. The customer pays the contractor for the work according to the invoices submitted,
which are in accordance with the prepared and mutually signed deed.
5.5. The contractor submits to the customer e-invoices that comply with the Estonian einvoice standard. The e-invoice must be submitted to the purchase invoice
management environment of the customer's e-invoice operator (AS Fitek). In addition
to the data specified in the standard, the e-invoice must also include the first and last
name of the customer's contact person, the procurement contract number, the
reference number of the contract part and the reference number of the public
procurement.
5.6. The invoices submitted by the contractor must clearly and unambiguously refer to the
procurement and framework contract, comply with the provisions of the act of delivery
and receipt and the requirements of the Value Added Tax Act. An invoice that does not
meet the conditions set out in this clause is not payable.
5.7. The customer pays the submitted invoices within 14 calendar days of receiving the
required invoice. The place of receipt of the amount indicated on the invoice is the
bank account number indicated by the contractor on the invoice.
5.8. The date of payment of the invoice is considered to be the date of submission of the
respective payment order to the State Treasury.
6. Contractor Team
6.1. The team members submitted in the framework procurement tender participate in the
performance of the contract, unless it is not possible to do so due to circumstances
beyond the control of the contractor and the team member has been replaced by a new
team member who meets the terms and conditions of the procurement with the
customer's consent that can be reproduced in writing.

2 Added upon conclusion and consists of an estimated cost plus 20% to cover indexation.

5

6.2. The contractor may involve additional team members with the customer's consent,
which can be reproduced in writing. Additional team members must meet the
requirements set out in the public procurement.
6.3. If the experience of a team member was assessed in the course of a procurement
procedure and the evaluated team member is replaced or supplemented, the person to
be replaced or added must score the same points in the evaluation. Replacement or
supplementation is allowed with the customer's consent that can be reproduced in
writing..
6.4. At the request of the contracting authority and for the specified term, the contractor
shall replace a team member if, in the reasoned opinion of the contracting authority,
the person proves to be incompetent or unsuitable for the performance of the
contractual tasks or if the performance of his/her contractual tasks continuously
harms the performance of the contract. The contractor bears all costs related to the
replacement. Additional team members must meet the procurement criteria set for the
role.
6.5. The contractor shall guarantee the existence of team members not personally named
in the public procurement and their compliance with the qualifications/previous work
experience required in the public procurement and shall nominate the contractors by
name upon the conclusion of the procurement contract.
6.6. Upon conclusion of the contract, the contracting authority may order new roles in
addition to the roles of the team members required in the public procurement, if this
is due to the nature of the work to be ordered and it is expedient to involve team
members with different competencies in order to perform the work efficiently. In this
case, the competency requirements for the role of the new team member are
determined in the mini-competition/order.
6.7. All confidentiality requirements apply to the persons additionally involved.
7. Award of public contracts
Applicable if the framework agreement is concluded with several partners (and the clauses
of ordering work with one partner below are removed):
7.1. The basis for the performance of the works is the concluded procurement contract.
7.2. The customer organises mini-competitions according to actual needs and the partners
of the framework agreement must be prepared for possible time breaks between the
commissioning of works.
7.3. In order to conclude the contract, the contracting authority shall submit a proposal to
the partners of the framework agreement in a format that can be reproduced in writing
(organise a mini-competition) and shall give a reasonable time for the submission of
the tender, taking into account the complexity of the works and the time required for
the submission of the tender.
7.4. In the technical specifications of the procurement contract to be concluded, the
contracting authority determines the content of the works and the results to be
delivered (list of works), the volume of the works, time and budget restrictions, stages
and other important conditions.
7.5. The mini-competition has the right to set additional conditions for the team according
to the object of the procurement contract. Also, a mini-competition always has the
right to apply the grounds for exclusion and ask for a procurement passport. The minicompetition also has the right to make it mandatory to involve companies, citizens or
6

institutions of the target country in the performance of the works, i.e. to require the
use of local partners.
7.6. When conducting a mini-competition, the contracting authority selects the most
economically advantageous tender as follows:
7.6.1. "total cost of performing works", "monthly cost of works", "cost of one working
hour", "licence fee", etc. (depending on the methodology of the works to be
ordered): 30 – 40%;
7.6.2. “quality criterion” means a task related to the work to be
planned/commissioned, such as a blueprint for the execution of the work,
additional experience of the team, involvement of locals, maintenance and
warranty conditions, etc.: 60 - 70%.
7.7. The contracting authority has the right to set a fixed budget instead of the provisions
of clause 7.6 and to select the most economically advantageous tender as follows:
7.7.1. „volume of work to be performed“ (e.g. in hours/time, etc.)/scope, etc.: 30 – 40%;
7.7.2. „quality criterion“ means a task related to the work to be
planned/commissioned, such as a blueprint for the execution of the work,
additional experience of the team, involvement of locals, etc. in the range: 60 70%.
7.8. The terms and conditions of the mini-competition stipulate the number of contractors
with which a procurement contract will be concluded, i.e. the contracting authority
may enter into contracts with several partners if it is necessary in view of the
circumstances.
7.9. If necessary, the contracting authority has the right to ask for additional confirmations
and data on the existence of the prerequisites necessary for the performance of the
works.
7.10.
When submitting a tender, all the requirements and conditions of the minicompetition must be complied with.
7.11. The contracting authority will open the tenders after the deadline specified in the
invitation to the mini-competition.
7.11.1. The contracting authority shall check the compliance of the tenders and
evaluate all tenders that meet the requirements on the basis of the specified
evaluation criteria, in which there are no substantive deviations from the terms
and conditions of the mini-competition. The contracting authority will not
evaluate tenders that do not comply with the conditions of the mini-competition.
Thereafter, the contracting authority verifies the successful tenderer's compliance
with the qualification criteria and checks the grounds for exclusion.
7.11.2. The contracting authority may evaluate the tenders before verifying the
conformity of the tenders or the absence of grounds for exclusion against the
tenderers and their compliance with the qualification criteria. In such a case, the
contracting authority will check the compliance of the tender, the compliance of
the tenderer with the qualification criteria and the absence of grounds for
exclusion only in the case of the successful tenderer. If the successful tenderer's
tender turns out to be non-compliant as a result of the inspection, the tenderer
does not meet the qualification criteria or the tenderer is excluded from the
procedure, the contracting authority has the right to declare the tenderer next in
the ranking as successful as a result of the evaluation and to carry out the
described inspections in respect of him or her.

7

7.12.
If one tender that has been found to be compliant is received in the minicompetition, the contracting authority has the right not to carry out a substantive
evaluation and the tender is awarded the maximum points.
7.13.
If the tender does not meet the conditions of the mini-competition, it will be
rejected.
7.14.
Before concluding the procurement contract, the contracting authority has the
right to declare the mini-competition invalid on its own initiative, if justified, by
notifying the partners of the framework agreement thereof.
7.15.
The contracting authority has the right to reject the tender and decide not to
conclude the procurement contract or to declare the mini-competition invalid in
accordance with the framework agreement if:
7.15.1. the tender(s) do not meet the conditions;
7.15.2. the tender(s) exceed the estimated cost;
7.15.3. The contracting authority does not receive approval for the final application for
the award of a procurement contract involving foreign funds.
7.16.
If no tender is received for the mini-competition or none of the tenders are
successful (including a situation arises where the tenderer does not pass a background
check), the contracting authority has the right to submit a tender for the direct
conclusion of a procurement contract with the same object of procurement in such a
way that the conditions for the performance of the procurement contract are not
significantly changed. The contracting authority is allowed to make changes in the
duration of the public contract, including the deadlines, and the volume of the
procurement contract according to the reasons for the failure of the mini-competition.
It is not allowed to change the object of the procurement contract, i.e. the scope. A
direct bid can be made in the following order:
7.16.1. First, make a bid for the award of the procurement contract to the contractor
who earned the most points in the framework agreement;
7.16.2. Tenders may then be submitted to the following contractors for the award of the
procurement contract in accordance with the order of evaluation.
7.17.
The contracting authority shall enter into a procurement contract for the
performance of the works in accordance with the terms and conditions of the minicompetition and shall notify the partners of the framework agreement of the result of
the mini-competition. The contractor undertakes to sign the procurement contract
within 3 working days of sending the procurement contract for signature at the latest.
Applicable if the framework agreement is concluded with a single tenderer (and the abovementioned points for ordering works with several tenderers are removed). If the framework
agreement has been concluded with one tenderer as a result of a procurement procedure, no
mini-competitions will be conducted:
7.18.
The performance of the works is based on the concluded procurement contract.
The procurement contract is deemed to have been concluded upon submission of the
order and acceptance of the tender by the contracting authority, as well as upon the
conclusion of the procurement contract on a specific form. In this subsection, the
specification of the tender within the meaning of § 30(3) of the PPA is considered to
be a tender.
7.19.
In order to submit orders and conclude the procurement contract, the
contracting authority shall contact the contractor directly, presenting the terms and
conditions of the procurement contract.

8

7.20.
The performance of the works is carried out on the basis of the technical
specification fixed in the order, which specifies the content of the works and the results
to be delivered (list of works), if possible, the volume of the works, time and budget
restrictions and other important conditions. The conditions can be fixed in stages.
Within the framework of the terms and conditions, the contracting authority may
impose an obligation on the involvement of local partners in the destination country
in the performance of the contract.
7.21.
In order to order work, the customer shall submit an order to the contractor in
a format that can be reproduced in writing, except in the case of ongoing consultation.
An order is a written request to the contractor to perform the work, either as an order
letter, after which the procurement contract is concluded on a specific form or through
the work management environment.
7.22.
The contracting authority shall give a reasonable time for the submission of the
tender, taking into account the complexity of the works to be ordered and the time
required for the submission of the tender. When submitting an offer, all the
requirements set out in the order must be followed.
7.23.
If possible, the contractor shall assess the volume of work on the basis of the
order and submit a price offer for the performance of the work and/or other data
required in the order (offer) by the deadline specified in the order.
7.24.
If the offer does not meet the conditions of the order or is not acceptable for any
other reason, it will be rejected.
7.25.
The contracting authority has the right to reject the submitted tender and decide
not to award the procurement contract or to declare the order submitted in accordance
with the framework agreement invalid if:
7.25.1. the tender does not meet the conditions;
7.25.2. the customer's need to fulfil the order disappears or changes;
7.25.3. exceeds the estimated cost, or;
7.25.4. The contracting authority does not receive approval for a full application for the
award of a procurement contract related to foreign funds.
7.26.
The contracting authority shall enter into a procurement contract for the
performance of the works in accordance with the terms and conditions of the minicompetition and shall notify the partners of the framework agreement of the result of
the mini-competition. The contractor undertakes to sign the procurement contract
within 3 working days of sending the procurement contract for signature at the latest.
8. Error reporting, bug fixes and warranty
8.1. Error corrections are corrections to work that are discovered and eliminated during
the period of validity of the procurement contract. The guarantee will enter into force
at the end of the procurement contract.
8.2. A party shall notify the other party of any detected defects as soon as possible in the
agreed manner. The party that discovered the error registers the error, indicating the
cause of the error, the expected deadline for correcting the error and its criticality, if
possible.
8.3. The contractor is obliged to carry out the error correction within the least possible
time.
8.4. If, after correcting the errors, the contractor delivers work in which errors continue to
occur during the acceptance testing of the contracting authority (second handover of
the work with errors), the contracting authority may decide whether to give the
contractor a new deadline for correcting the errors or to eliminate the errors itself or
9

with the help of a third party, reducing the remuneration paid to the contractor in
proportion to the costs incurred for correcting the errors.
8.5. The contractor shall provide a guarantee for the works performed on the basis of the
procurement contract for at least 12 months (specified in the procurement documents
of the mini-competition), if it is objectively possible. The relevant agreement is noted
in the procurement contract each time.
8.6. The warranty covers all defects and non-conformities that occur in the work during
the warranty period, which have not arisen as a result of the actions of the customer
or third parties. The warranty also covers changes and modifications to all work that
have been done by the contractor and that have not significantly changed the work
previously performed.
8.7. The contractor shall eliminate defects and non-conformities in the works during the
warranty period free of charge, including updating or replacing all related documents.
8.8. If the contractor proves that the defect eliminated was not covered by the warranty,
the contracting authority will reimburse the direct costs incurred by the contractor in
connection with the rectification of the defect. The compensation of costs is based on
the price of one working hour for the performance of the works fixed in the
procurement contract within the framework of which the error has been discovered.
8.9. If the contractor is unable to eliminate the errors by the agreed deadline, the
contracting authority may eliminate them themselves or arrange for them to be
eliminated with the help of a third party, notifying the contractor thereof. The
customer has the right to demand compensation from the contractor for all costs
incurred in connection with the elimination of the defect in the manner described
above, if it was a defect covered by the warranty.
9. Intellectual Property
9.1. The intellectual property rights to the results of the work performed under the
procurement contract belong to the contracting authority on the terms and conditions
set out in this contract, if it is objectively possible (to be specified in the minicompetition according to the object of the contract). The fee for the transfer and
licensing of copyrights is included in the procurement contract fee.
9.2. If possible, the Customer shall have all the author's economic rights and exclusive
licence to the results of the work, including the right to reproduce, process, distribute
and make available to the public the documents prepared by the Contractor in the
performance of the procurement contract in any form and on any medium, without
geographical restrictions and for an indefinite period. The proprietary rights and
exclusive licence shall be deemed to have been transferred to the contracting authority
upon the signing of the act of delivery and receipt by the parties.
9.3. The contracting authority has the right to carry out developments and changes to the
results of the work itself or to order it from a third party without applying for additional
permission from the contractor and without notifying the contractor, provided that in
the case of such developments and changes it is clearly understood that the author of
such developments and changes is not the contractor. If this is not clear, the
contracting authority must notify the contractor in advance and give the contractor the
opportunity to demand that their name be removed from the results of the work.
9.4. The customer has the right to freely use what has been developed under the contract,
including the right to give the work created on the basis of the procurement contract
to third parties for use.
9.5. The provisions of this chapter may be amended or specified in the procurement
documents of the mini-competition.

10

10. Confidentiality obligation
10.1.
The parties undertake not to disclose confidential information received under
the Agreement to third parties, except in cases provided for by law.
10.2.
The parties shall comply with all applicable data protection and information
security legislation.
10.3.
The parties shall forward confidential information only to those persons who
are directly involved in the performance of the procurement contract and shall ensure
that such persons are aware of and comply with the requirement of confidentiality.
10.4.
By confidential information, the parties mean personal data that have become
known in the course of the performance of the procurement contract and information
to which access restrictions have been imposed, as well as other information the
disclosure of which could harm the interests of the parties.
10.5.
The responsibility for the performance of the confidentiality obligation lies with
the party for all persons involved by it in the performance of the contract.
10.6.
The confidentiality requirement is valid for an indefinite period. Due to the
nature of the confidential information, the customer has the right to set additional
requirements and/or instructions for the processing of personal data.
10.7.
The parties shall not disclose (including in the media) information created or
become known in the course of the performance of the procurement contract without
the written consent of the other party before the signing of the final act of delivery and
acceptance of the procurement contract.
10.8.
The obligation of confidentiality is valid for an indefinite period.
11. Responsibility
11.1. The parties are liable for any breach of their contractual obligations pursuant to the
law and the procedure laid down in the contract. A party's liability for damage caused
by a breach of procurement contract is limited to the price of a one-time procurement
contract excluding VAT. The limitation of liability does not apply in the event of an
intentional breach of contract.
11.2.The contractor is liable for the actions and violations of its subcontractors and their
representatives or employees, such as its own actions. In the case of subcontracting,
the Contracting authority's approval of the subcontracting performance of any part of
the procurement contract shall not relieve the contractor of any of its contractual
obligations. The contractor may not transfer its contractual obligations to a third party
or involve a third party for the performance of its contractual obligations without the
express written consent of the contracting authority.
11.3.If the Contracting authority delays the payment of the Fee on the basis of a duly
submitted invoice to the Contractor beyond the term agreed upon in the Contract, the
Contractor shall have the right to demand a fine for delay of up to 0.5% of the delayed
amount from the Contracting authority who has delayed payment for each calendar
day of delayed payment.
11.4.If the contractor delays the delivery of the work or part of the work beyond the term
agreed upon in the contract, the contracting authority has the right to demand a
contractual penalty of up to 0.5% of the remuneration payable under the procurement
contract for each calendar day delayed in delivery. The contracting authority may also
demand payment of a contractual penalty for the time when the contractor makes
corrections to the work in connection with the non-compliance of the work with the
contract. The contractor shall not be liable for delays in delivery if the delay was caused
solely by circumstances dependent on the contracting authority. If a violation of other
provisions of the procurement contract is detected, the contracting authority has the

11

right to demand and the contractor is obliged to pay a contractual penalty of up to
1000 euros for each violation.
11.5.If a breach of confidentiality obligations is established, the injured party has the right
to demand and the party that violated the confidentiality obligation is obliged to pay a
contractual penalty of up to 5000 euros for each respective violation. The right to
determine the amount of the contractual penalty lies with the party filing the
contractual penalty claim.
11.6.
In the event of a material breach of the contract, the contracting authority has
the right to submit a contractual penalty claim of up to 10,000 euros to the contractor
for each violation. In the event of a significant breach of a procurement contract by a
contractor, the contracting authority does not have to set an additional term specified
in § 114 of the Law of Obligations Act for the performance of the contractor's contract,
and the contracting authority has the right, among other things, to cancel the
procurement contract or withdraw from the procurement contract.
11.7. In addition to the provisions of the Law of Obligations Act, a material violation
includes, among other things, the following:
11.7.1. failure to award the procurement contract without a good reason or failure to
commence its performance;
11.7.2. lack of rights (including permits, licences, intellectual property rights) necessary
for the performance of the contract;
11.7.3. violation of intellectual property rights and the terms and conditions of their
use;
11.7.4. repeated (at least twice) replacement of a crew member by a person who does
not meet the agreed requirements, or replacement of a crew member without the
prior consent of the participant, at least in a format that can be reproduced in
writing;
11.7.5. repeated (at least twice) non-performance of contractual obligations;
11.7.6. failure to deliver the matter on time in such a way that the fulfilment of the
purpose of the procurement contract is no longer realistic within the deadline
and/or due to the actions or omissions of the contractor, it is no longer possible
to use the funds intended for financing the public contract;
11.8.
transfer of contractual obligations to a third party without concluding a
corresponding amendment to the contract.
11.9.
Contractual penalties and interest on arrears shall be paid within 21 calendar
days from the receipt of the respective claim.
11.10.
The payment of contractual penalties and interest on arrears arising from the
contract, as well as compensation for the damage caused, shall not release the party
that violated the procurement contract from the performance of any obligations under
the contract.
11.11.
In the event of non-performance of the obligations assumed under the
procurement contract or damage caused to the contracting authority or third parties
by improper performance, the contractor undertakes to restore the situation prior to
causing the damage or to compensate the costs incurred by the contracting authority
for the restoration of the situation.
11.12.
The parties may reduce the claim for contractual penalty, interest on arrears or
compensation for damage by agreement and agree on other additional obligations
instead of the claim. A party has the right to set off its claim against the other party's
claim.

12

11.13.
Without prejudice to the other provisions of the Agreement, the parties shall
take reasonable steps to reduce the damage that is or may be the basis for any claim
for damages under the Agreement.
12. Entry into force, amendment and termination of the agreement
12.1.The framework agreement and the procurement agreement enter into force once the
parties have signed the agreement.
12.2.
The framework agreement and the procurement contract shall be terminated
upon the performance of contractual obligations, the cancellation of the respective
procurement contract or on any other basis arising from the law.
12.3.
The contracting authority may terminate the framework and procurement
contract at any time in writing without prior notice. In this case, the customer
undertakes to accept the work done by the time of cancellation and pay a fee for it
according to the volume of work performed. The customer is not obliged to pay for the
work or a part thereof that does not comply with the conditions set out in the
procurement contract and its annexes.
12.4.
The framework agreement and the procurement contract may be amended
under the conditions set out in the procurement contract by a written agreement
between the parties, which is formalised as an annex to the contract.
13. Forwarding notices and contact persons
13.1.Notices are generally forwarded by e-mail, subject to the terms and conditions of the
Rules of Procedure, if any. In the case of sending by e-mail, including digitally signed
documents, the notice is deemed to have been received at the time indicated in the
notice of arrival or at the time indicated in the e-mail.
13.2.
If the forwarding of the notice has significant legal consequences, the notice
must be sent digitally signed by a party with the right to sign. An informative message
can also be sent by phone. A notice that does not have legal consequences is considered
informative.
13.3.
A written notice is deemed to have been received by a party if it is handed over
against a signature or if the notice has been sent by registered mail by a post office to
the address notified by the party and 5 calendar days have passed from the posting.
13.4.
The customer's contact person(s) are: .... ..., telephone ...., e-mail: .... or his
substitute;
13.5.
The contact person(s) of the contractor are: ..., ...., phone ... E-mail: .... or his
substitute;
13.6.
It is the competence of the contact persons to provide the other party with the
necessary information and instructions within the limits of their competence, to give
consent to the change of team member, to check the quality of the procurement
contract performed, to transfer the object of the procurement contract and to accept
and sign the act.
13.7.
If the contact person changes, a party shall immediately notify the other party
in writing.
14. Final provisions
14.1.Disputes related to the framework agreement that the parties have not been able to
resolve through negotiations will be submitted to Harju County Court for resolution.

13

14.2.
Estonian law applies to the framework agreement. As this is a mixed type of
contract, in addition to general contractual legal remedies, legal remedies arising from
the law must also be taken into account, which are used on the basis of Chapter 35 or
36 of the Law of Obligations Act, depending on the nature of the violation.
14.3.
In matters not regulated by the framework agreement or in a situation where a
provision of the agreement is in conflict with the law, the legislation in force in the
Republic of Estonia shall be taken into account.
15. Annexes that are not signed with the framework agreement
15.1.Annex 1 - Technical specifications;
15.2.
Annex 2 – Draft procurement contract;
15.3.
Annex 3 – Data Processing Agreement;
15.4.
Annex 4 – Every contractor's tender.

16. Signatures of the parties

Contracting authority:
...

Contractors:
...

/digitally signed /

/digitally signed /

14

Annex 2
DRAFT PROCUREMENT CONTRACT
Estonian Centre for International Development (hereinafter referred to as the
customer or contracting authority), registry code 90015347, Tatari street 1, 10116
Tallinn, who is represented by a member of the management board Klen Jäärats
and
___ (hereinafter the contractor), represented by __
hereinafter separately or jointly by the parties, have entered into this procurement contract
(hereinafter the contract) in the following:
1. Subject-matter of the contract
1.1. The object of the contract is the works specified in the technical specifications of the
mini-competition "___" with the reference number __ (hereinafter the works).
1.2. The volume of contracted work in hours/months/cost/maximum volume, etc.
1.3. The contract is funded by __.
2. Terms and conditions of performance of works
2.1. The contractor will hand over the work day.month.year/months from the conclusion
of the contract.
2.2. In the case of an hourly contract, the contractor submits a time report for the
previous month's working hours, which includes the hours worked and the work
performed during them. The time report shall be submitted signed no later than on
the 5th working day of the following calendar month. The last time report shall be
submitted together with the act.
2.3. The ordered works will be handed over according to the terms agreed upon in the
technical specifications of the contract.
2.4. The customer inspects the work in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
framework agreement.
2.5. Together with the work to be handed over, the contractor transfers all intellectual
property rights to the work to the customer as described in the framework agreement.
2.6. Warranty terms and conditions.
2.7. Contact persons, if different from those specified in the framework agreement.
2.8. All the differences compared to the provisions of the framework agreement are
entered here.
3. Contract value
In the case of an hourly contract:
3.1. The contract is performed on an hourly basis, the customer pays only for the working
hours ordered and performed on the basis of the contract.
3.2. The cost of one working hour in the performance of the contract is ____ (cost in
words) euros excluding VAT.
3.3. The reserve of the procurement contract is 10% of the maximum volume of the
procurement contract.
3.4. The contractor submits an e-invoice to the customer in accordance with the regulation
of the framework agreement.
15

If it's a fixed total cost:
3.5. The customer pays a total of ___ (cost in words) euros excluding VAT for the works
ordered under the contract.
3.6. The works will be handed over in the following stages:
3.6.1. ____;
3.6.2. ____.
3.7. The reserve of the procurement contract is 10% of the maximum volume of the
procurement contract.
3.8. The contractor submits an e-invoice to the customer in accordance with the regulation
of the framework agreement.
4. Final provisions
4.1. The Agreement enters into force from the moment it is signed by the Parties and is
valid until the Parties perform their contractual obligations.
4.2. The contract documents consist of the procurement documents of the public
procurement, including the annexes to the contract, amendments to the contract and
the tender.
4.3. The following documents are integral parts of the contract at the time of conclusion of
the contract:
4.3.1. Annex 1 – Technical specifications;
4.3.2. Annex 2 – Tender;
4.3.3. ___.
5. Signatures of the parties
Contracting authority:
Estonian Centre for International
Development
Resgirty code: 70000941
E-mail: info@estdev.ee
(digitally signed)
__
Member of the Management Board

16

Contractor:
___
Regsitry code: __
E-mail: __
(digitally signed)
__
__

Annex 3
DATA PROCESSING AGREEMENT
This addendum to the contract concerning the processing of personal data (hereinafter: the
addendum) is an integral part of the procurement contract concluded "___" (reference
number __) concluded between the Estonian Centre for International Development
(hereinafter: Data Controller3) and ___ (hereinafter: Data Processor4) for the
performance of the activities specified in the contract among the target group (hereinafter:
customer).
1. Purpose of the agreement
1.1. The purpose of this Addendum is to agree on the rights and obligations of the Data
Processor in the processing of personal data, which guide the Parties in the
performance of the contract (hereinafter referred to as the Services). The Annex shall
enter into force after its signature by both parties. The Addendum shall be applied if
the Data Processor processes the Customer's Personal Data on behalf of the Data
Controller in accordance with the Agreement. This Annex constitutes a data processing
agreement for the processing of personal data in accordance with the General Data
Protection Regulation (2016/679) of the European Union (hereinafter: GDPR).
1.2. The categories of data subjects and the types of personal data that are processed in the
provision of the service (hereinafter: customer data), the duration, nature and
purposes of the processing of personal data, and the instructions given by the
controller are set out in the procurement documents of the procurement, the contract
and its annexes.
1.3. The Parties undertake to comply with all applicable data protection laws in relation to
any personal data that has been shared under the Agreement.
1.4. In the event of any conflict between the Agreement and the provisions of this Annex,
the provisions of this Annex shall prevail.
2. Definitions
2.1. For the purposes of this Annex, the definitions of the General Regulation are used in
this Annex, including: the following definitions:
2.1.1. „Appropriate technical and organisational measures“ means processes and
procedures which, taking into account technological progress and the cost of
implementation and personal data, ensure a level of security appropriate to the
extent of the damage resulting from any unauthorised or unlawful processing of
personal data, or from accidental loss, destruction or damage.
2.1.2. "Data Protection Laws" means the General Data Protection Regulation and
other legislation governing the processing of personal data in force in the Republic
of Estonia and their implementing or supplemental acts together with their
amendments, amendments or replacements, any enforceable guidelines and
codes of practice issued by any local or EU regulatory authority responsible for
the protection of personal data.
2.1.3. "processing of personal data" means any operation or set of operations which is
performed on personal data or on sets of personal data, whether or not by
automated means, such as collection, recording, organisation, structuring,
storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by
transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or
combination, restriction, erasure or destruction.
3 Contracting authority/ customer
4 tenderer/ contractor/ service provider/ agent

17

2.1.4. "personal data" means any information relating to an identified or identifiable
natural person (hereinafter referred to as a data subject). An identifiable natural
person is one who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by
reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location
information, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical,
physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that natural
person;
2.1.5. "personal data breach" means a breach of security that causes accidental or
unlawful destruction, loss, alteration or unauthorised disclosure of personal data
transmitted, stored or otherwise processed.
3. Data protection and processing of personal data
3.1. Obligations of the processor:
3.1.1. The Data Processor undertakes to process Customer Data in accordance with data
protection laws and the Agreement and only to the extent necessary for the
provision of the Service. If it is necessary for the performance of a contract, the
processor may also process customer data for the following purposes: i)
maintenance and use of relevant IT systems; (ii) activities related to quality, risk
and customer management.
3.1.2. The processor shall process personal data only on the basis of documented
instructions from the controller, including in connection with the transfer of
personal data to a third country or an international organisation, unless it is
obliged to do so by the law applicable to the processor. In such a case, the
processor shall notify the controller of this legal claim before processing the
personal data, unless such notification is prohibited by the right in question due
to overriding public interest.
3.1.3. The processor informs data subjects of the terms and conditions of processing
their personal data.
3.1.4. The processor is responsible for the accuracy of the personal data provided to
the controller.
3.1.5. The processor undertakes to contact the controller within a reasonable period
of time for clarification or further instructions if the processor is unsure of the
controller's instructions. The Data Processor shall inform the Data Controller of
any discrepancies found between the Code and the data protection laws or
regulations of the European Union or a competent jurisdiction, in which case the
Data Processor may immediately refuse to comply with the Data Controller's
Instructions.
3.1.6. The Data Processor may use other Data Processors (hereinafter referred to as
the Other Data Processor) for the processing of Customer Data only with
the written consent of the Data Controller. Without the written consent of the
controller, the processor may use other processors for the processing of customer
data only if it is necessary for the IT service providers of the processor for the
operation of information and communication systems and for the organisation
and performance of maintenance. The processor is responsible for the activities
of all other processors in the same way as for its own activities and enters into
written contracts with another processor for the processing of personal data in
accordance with Article 28(4) of the GDPR, which are equivalent to (and no less
strict) to those provided for in the contract. If the processor wishes to involve other
processors in the processing of personal data during the term of the contract, the
processor shall notify the controller thereof in writing. The parties agree that if the
involvement of another processor is important for the functioning of the
18

processor's activities and the controller has no objections to the reliability of the
other processor, the controller agrees to the involvement of the other processor in
the processing of personal data. The Data Controller shall confirm its agreement
to engage the other Data Processor in writing. If the Data Controller has
authorised the Data Processor to use other Data Processors for the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement, the Data Processor will only be the contact
person for responding to questions arising from this Agreement for the Data
Controller, and the Data Processor shall ensure that the other Data Processor
complies with the requirements of this Agreement and is bound by it in the same
way as the Data Processor itself. The controller may revoke the authorisation
granted to the processor to use other processors at any time.
3.1.7. The Data Processor undertakes to keep the Customer Data that has become
known in the course of the performance of the Contract to be strictly confidential
and not to use or disclose the Customer Data for any purpose other than as
specified in the Agreement. Also, to ensure that the persons authorised to process
personal data (including other processors, employees of the processor, etc. who
have access to the personal data processed in the course of the performance of the
contract) comply with the confidentiality requirement or are subject to the
obligation of confidentiality under the articles of association.
3.1.8. The processor shall take all the measures required by Article 32 of the GDPR for
the processing of personal data and implement appropriate technical and
organisational measures in such a way that the processing complies with the
requirements set out in the GDPR.
3.1.9. The Data Processor undertakes to implement appropriate technical and
organisational security measures to protect the Customer's Data against
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration and unauthorised disclosure or
access to the Customer's Data, incl.:
• prevent unauthorised persons from accessing the equipment used to
process the data;
• prevent unauthorised reading, copying and modification of data, as well as
unauthorised transfer of data carriers;
• prevent unauthorised storage, alteration and deletion of data and ensure
that it is possible to determine retrospectively when, by whom and what
personal data were stored, altered or deleted, or when, by whom and to
which data access was obtained;
• ensure that each user of the customer's data has access only to the data
authorised for processing and to the data authorised by the customer;
• ensure the availability of data on the data transfer: when, to whom and
what personal data was transferred, as well as the preservation of such
data unchanged;
• ensure that there is no unauthorised reading, copying, alteration or
deletion of data during the transmission of data by means of data
communication and the transport of data carriers.
3.1.10. The processor shall, to the extent possible, assist the controller, by means of
appropriate technical and organisational measures taken by the controller, to
comply with the controller's obligations under the GDPR to respond to all requests
of the data subject in the exercise of its rights, inter alia, by forwarding to the
controller all requests for verification, rectification and erasure of the data
received from the data subjects, objection to data processing and other requests
to the controller immediately upon receipt thereof.

19

3.1.11. The processor assists the controller in fulfilling the obligations set out in Articles
32-36 of the GDPR, taking into account the nature of the processing of personal
data and the information available to the processor.
3.1.12. The controller may carry out audits by requesting relevant information from the
processor in writing for the purpose of verifying compliance with the obligations
of the processor under the Annex. Controller audits may be carried out either by
(i) the Data Controller or (ii) by a third party previously agreed with the Data
Processor and authorised by the Data Controller. If the controller and the
processor cannot agree on a third party who should conduct the audit, only the
controller may conduct the audit. The request for information to the processor
must specify what information, data and documents are requested from the
processor as part of the audit. The Parties have agreed that: (1) the processor has
an obligation to provide the controller with information, data and documents
reasonably necessary to demonstrate compliance with the processor's contractual
obligations, which may include existing security audit reports performed by third
parties; 2) the processor does not disclose any information, data or other
documents the disclosure of which would violate the confidentiality obligation
arising from the relevant legislation or professional rules; (3) the processor shall
not disclose any information, data or other documents relating to the resolution
of an ongoing, potential or threatened lawsuit or other dispute between the
controller and the processor. The controller shall treat all information obtained
by the processor in the course of the audit as confidential. An audit may not be
carried out more than once per calendar year and the relevant right shall in any
case expire within 2 months after the processor ceases to process personal data on
behalf of the controller.
3.1.13. The processor directs all requests from supervisory authorities directly to the
controller, as the processor does not have the right to represent or act on behalf of
the controller in its interactions with supervisory authorities.
4. Processing outside the European Union / European Economic Area
4.1. The controller authorises the processor and other processors to transfer personal data
to countries outside the European Economic Area, but only if they have a lawful basis
to do so, including (i) to a recipient located in a country that ensures an adequate level
of protection of personal data, or (ii) on the basis of a contract that meets the European
Union's requirement for the transfer of personal data to processors outside the
European Union.
4.2. The Parties agree in advance in writing on any transfer or processing of Customer Data
outside the European Union / European Economic Area.
5. Notification of a personal data breach
5.1. The processor shall notify the controller of any personal data breach or where there is
reason to suspect that such a breach has occurred, without undue delay from the
moment the data processor or another processor used by the processor becomes aware
of the personal data breach or there is reason to suspect that such breach has occurred.
5.2. The Data Processor shall, without undue delay and no later than forty-eight (48) hours
after becoming aware thereof, provide the Data Controller with all relevant
information regarding the personal data breach. To the extent that the relevant
information is available to the processor, the notice shall describe at least the
following:
5.2.1. the nature, expected date and time of the personal data breach that occurred;

20

5.2.2. the name and contact details of the Data Protection Officer or other relevant
contact person for further information;
5.2.3. categories and approximate number of data subjects concerned, as well as the
type and approximate number of relevant records of personal data;
5.2.4. the likely consequences of a personal data breach, and
5.2.5. the measures taken or will be taken by the processor to address the breach in
order to prevent future breaches of personal data and, where appropriate,
measures to mitigate the potential negative effects of the breach.
5.3. The processor must immediately document the results of the investigation and the
measures taken for the controller.
5.4. The processor shall cooperate fully with the controller in order to develop and
implement an action plan to remedy any personal data breaches.
5.5. The controller is responsible for notifying the supervisory authority.
6. Other provisions
6.1. Upon termination of the Agreement, the Data Processor undertakes to return all
Customer Data to the Data Controller or to delete the Data and copies thereof in
accordance with the instructions given by the Data Controller, unless the applicable
legislation requires the retention of Personal Data or if the Data Processor does not
have a legal basis for processing Personal Data as an independent Data Controller.
6.2. The processor shall issue to the controller a certificate signed by a person authorised
to represent the processor, confirming that the operations specified in clause 6.1 of the
Annex have been performed by the processor and all other processors used by the
processor.
6.3. The Data Processor shall be liable for any damage caused by the Data Processor as a
result of the processing of personal data transferred to the Data Controller, data
subjects or other third parties on the basis of the Agreement, which has been carried
out in breach of the Agreement or legal provisions, and in particular as a result of the
disclosure of personal data to unauthorised persons. If the applicable legislation or the
Agreement is breached for reasons attributable to the Data Processor and as a result
the Data Controller is obliged to pay compensation or a fine, the Data Processor is
obliged to reimburse the Data Controller for the costs incurred in this regard. If the
Data Processor fails to comply with the Agreement or performs it improperly, the Data
Processor shall be obliged to pay a contractual penalty of EUR 1000 for each breach
on the basis of a promissory note to be paid within 14 days after the respective claim
has been issued by the Data Controller. Improper performance of the Agreement
means, first and foremost, a situation where the supervisory authority supervising
compliance with the principles of processing personal data finds that the Data
Processor has not processed the data transferred to it in accordance with these
principles. The Controller reserves the right to demand compensation for damage
caused by the breach of the Contract in addition to the contractual penalty.
6.4. The Data Processor shall notify the Data Controller in writing of any changes that may
affect the Data Processor's ability or prospects to comply with this Annex and the
written instructions of the Data Controller. The Parties shall agree on all additions and
amendments to this Annex in writing.
6.5. This Annex shall enter into force upon its signature by both Parties. The Addendum
shall remain in force until (i) the agreement between the parties is in force or (ii) the
parties have mutual obligations related to the processing of personal data.
6.6. Obligations which, by their nature, must remain in force despite the expiry of this
Annex shall remain in force after the expiry of this Annex.

21

Controller

Processor

22

