Framework Agreement No......
Estonian Centre for International Development (hereinafter referred to as the
customer or contracting authority), registry code 90015347, Tatari street 1, 10116
Tallinn, who is represented by a member of the management board Klen Jäärats
and
________, registry code ________, address ________, who is represented by a member
of the management board ________ (hereinafter contractor 1 or party),
________, registry code ________, address ________, who is represented by a member
of the management board ________ (hereinafter contractor 2 or party),
________, registry code ________, address ________, who is represented by a member
of the management board ________ (hereinafter contractor 3 or party) and
All contractors are entered
hereinafter separately or jointly by the parties, have entered into this framework agreement
(hereinafter the agreement) in the following:
1. Purpose and subject-matter of the agreement
1.1. The purpose of the framework agreement concluded on the basis of lot/part 3 of the
public procurement "Information and cyber security matters and services" (public
procurement reference number 301036) organised by the contracting authority is to
agree on how the procurement contracts for the procurement of the supplies that are
the subject of the framework agreement will be concluded between the contracting
authority and the partners of the framework agreement during the validity of the
framework agreement.
1.2. The object of the contract is the components, installation and configuration of the ICT
and cyber security infrastructure (hereinafter referred to as the supply), which the
contractor undertakes to sell to the contracting authority in accordance with the terms
and conditions set out in the framework agreement and the annexes to the framework
agreement. A more detailed description of the object of the framework agreement and
the requirements for the object are set out in the technical specifications and in the
tender submitted by the contractor.
1.3. The framework agreement does not oblige the contracting authority to order supplies,
i.e. to enter into a procurement contract.
1.4. The framework agreement is valid for 48 months or until the performance of the
obligations or the termination of the framework agreement or upon the fulfilment of
the volume of the framework agreement.
1.5. In addition to the state budget, the framework agreement may also be financed from
foreign funds (i.e. financial instruments outside the budget of the contracting
authority).

1

2. General Terms and Conditions
2.1. All annexes and procurement documents of the public procurement, as well as the
tenders submitted by the contractor in the public procurement and written notices
between the parties, which are not separately signed as annexes to the framework
agreement, are considered to be inseparable parts of the framework agreement.
2.2. The ordering of the supplies and their content will be agreed upon in the course of a
mini-competition organised on the basis of a framework agreement and in the
procurement contract.
2.3. If the term of the procurement contract differs from the term of the framework
agreement, the term of the procurement contract shall prevail. If the terms and
conditions in the annexes to the agreement differ from the terms of the agreement, the
term of the agreement shall prevail.
2.4. In the course of the performance of the framework agreement, additional conditions
may be agreed upon if they are necessary for the fulfilment of the requirements arising
from the implementation of the financing conditions.
2.5. If there are additional conditions related to the financing of the supplies ordered under
the procurement contract, the contractor is obliged to comply with the requirements
arising from the use of financial resources announced in the procurement contract,
including the use of the symbols required in the terms and conditions of the
programme.
2.6. The parties shall cooperate in the performance of the procurement contract and in the
achievement of these objectives. The parties undertake to make all necessary efforts to
perform the procurement contract on time and in accordance with the agreements.
2.7. The quantities of supplies to be purchased in the technical specifications are indicative
and are not binding on the customer.
2.8. With the contract, the contractor undertakes to deliver the supplies to the customer in
accordance with the procurement contract. The contractor confirms that it is a reseller
of the products that are the subject of the procurement contract and that the
performance of the procurement contract does not harm the rights and interests of
third parties and that there are no circumstances that would preclude its rights to enter
into the contract.
2.9. By signing the procurement contract, the contractor confirms the ability to deliver the
quantities of the supplies to be ordered on time upon receipt of the respective orders.
2.10.
The languages of performance of the procurement contract are Estonian and
English, among other supplies, they are also the languages of concluding procurement
contracts, working meetings and other communication, and documenting the works.
The parties may agree on the need to perform the procurement contract in other
languages, but a project manager who speaks English and the ability to communicate
and document in Estonian must be ensured (an interpreter is also suitable).
2.11.From the moment of delivery of the supply, the contracting authority shall have the
right to use the supply under the conditions set out in the contract.
3. Rights and obligations of the parties
3.1. The contractor undertakes:
3.1.1. sell supplies on the terms agreed in the procurement contract;
3.1.2. cooperate with third parties with regard to the needs of the customer (e.g. with
a business customer, etc.);
2

3.1.3. immediately notify the contracting authority of any circumstances hindering the
acquisition of the property that interfere with the proper performance of the
procurement contract;
3.1.4. deliver the supplies to the indicated country of destination in accordance with
the provisions of the procurement contract;
3.1.5. install supplies in accordance with the provisions of the procurement contract;
3.1.6. immediately notify the contracting authority of a cyber incident directed against
the contractor and, at the request of the contractor, submit a cyber incident report
to the contracting authority;
3.1.7. notify in a format that can be reproduced in writing of any interest that may
cause a conflict of interest in the performance of the contract.
3.2. The contractor has the right to:
3.2.1. receive remuneration for the sale of supplies to the extent and in accordance
with the procedure agreed in the procurement contract;
3.2.2. use subcontractors for the performance of the contract, having previously
agreed in writing with the customer. The contractor is responsible for the actions
and omissions of subcontractors before the contracting authority;
3.2.3. to transfer the right to issue invoices to a third party without concluding an
amendment to the contract, if they have submitted a notice to the customer to that
effect.
3.3. The customer undertakes:
3.3.1. to pay for the supplies received in the agreed amount and in accordance with
the agreed procedure;
3.4. The customer has the right to::
3.4.1. always monitor the performance of the procurement contract and provide the
contractor with mandatory instructions in this regard;
3.4.2. refuse to pay the fee, in whole or in part, if the contractor failed to properly
perform the procurement contract on the agreed terms and the contractor's
breach is not objectively justified;
3.4.3. involve other state authorities in providing information for the performance of
the contract, in the role of payer and/or quality controller. The involvement of a
third party by the contracting authority cannot be regarded as an amendment of
the framework agreement within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act.
4. Award of procurement contracts
Applicable if the framework agreement is concluded with several partners:
4.1. The basis for the purchase of supplies is the concluded procurement contract.
4.2. The customer organises mini-competitions according to actual needs, and the partners
of the framework agreement must be prepared for possible time breaks between
ordering supplies.
4.3. In order to conclude the contract, the contracting authority shall submit a proposal to
the partners of the framework agreement in a format that can be reproduced in writing
(organise a mini-competition) and shall give a reasonable time for the submission of
the tender, taking into account the technical complexity of the matter and the time
required for the submission of the tender.
4.4. In the technical specifications of the procurement contract to be concluded, the
contracting authority specifies the object and technical specification of the
3

procurement, the time and location of delivery, and other important conditions. At the
same time, the contracting authority may make it mandatory to involve a local partner
in the destination country in the performance of the contract. The contracting
authority also has the right to ask for documents certifying the right of resale.
4.5. When conducting a mini-competition, the contracting authority selects only the most
economically advantageous tender for the purchase of supplies on the basis of the
lowest total cost.
4.6. In a mini-competition for the purchase of services or supplies together with the service,
the contracting authority selects the most economically advantageous tender as
follows:
4.6.1. "total cost of providing the service", "monthly cost of the service" or "cost of one
working hour" (depending on the methodology of the service to be ordered): 30 –
40%;
4.6.2. 'quality criterion' means a task related to the planned/on-demand service,
such as a blueprint for the provision of the service, additional experience of the
team, local involvement, maintenance and warranty conditions, delivery time,
etc.: 60 - 70%.
4.7. The terms and conditions of the mini-competition stipulate how many contractors will
be awarded the procurement contract.
4.8. If necessary, the customer has the right to ask for additional confirmations and data
on the existence of the prerequisites necessary for the purchase of the supply.
4.9. When submitting a tender, all the requirements and conditions of the minicompetition must be complied with.
4.10.
The contracting authority will open the tenders after the deadline specified in
the invitation to the mini-competition.
4.10.1. The contracting authority shall check the compliance of the tenders and
evaluate all tenders that meet the requirements and do not contain any
substantive deviations from the terms and conditions of the mini-competition.
The contracting authority will not evaluate tenders that do not comply with the
conditions of the mini-competition. Thereafter, the contracting authority verifies
the successful tenderer's compliance with the qualification criteria and checks the
grounds for exclusion.
4.10.2. The contracting authority may evaluate the tenders before verifying the
conformity of the tenders or the absence of grounds for exclusion against the
tenderers and their compliance with the qualification criteria. In such a case, the
contracting authority will check the compliance of the tender, the compliance of
the tenderer with the qualification criteria and the absence of grounds for
exclusion only in the case of the successful tenderer. If the successful tenderer's
tender turns out to be non-compliant as a result of the inspection, the tenderer
does not meet the qualification criteria or the tenderer is excluded from the
procedure, the contracting authority has the right to declare the tenderer next in
the ranking as successful as a result of the evaluation and to carry out the
described inspections in respect of him or her.
4.11.
If the tender does not meet the conditions of the mini-competition, it will be
rejected.
4.12.
Before concluding the procurement contract, the contracting authority has the
right to declare the mini-competition invalid on its own initiative, if justified, by
notifying the partners of the framework agreement thereof.
4.13.
The contracting authority has the right to reject the tender and decide not to
4

conclude the procurement contract or to declare the mini-competition invalid in
accordance with the framework agreement if:
4.13.1. the tender(s) do not meet the conditions;
4.13.2. the tender(s) exceed the estimated cost;
4.13.3. The contracting authority does not receive approval for the final application for
the award of a procurement contract involving foreign funds.
4.14.
If no tender is received for the mini-competition or none of the tenders are
successful (incl. a situation arises where the tenderer does not pass a background
check), the contracting authority has the right to submit a tender for the direct
conclusion of a procurement contract with the same object of procurement. The
contracting authority is allowed to make changes in the duration of the procurement
contract, including the deadlines, and the volume of the procurement contract
according to the reasons for the failure of the mini-competition. It is not allowed to
change the object of the procurement contract, i.e. the scope. A direct tender can be
made in the following order:
4.14.1. First, make a tender for the award of the procurement contract with the
contractor who earned the most points in concluding the framework agreement;
4.14.2. Tenders may then be submitted for the award of the procurement contract in
accordance with the order of evaluation to the following contractors.
4.15.
The contracting authority shall enter into a procurement contract for the
purchase of the supply in accordance with the terms and conditions of the minicompetition and shall notify the partners of the framework agreement of the result of
the mini-competition. The contractor undertakes to sign the procurement contract
within 3 working days of sending the procurement contract for signature at the latest.
Applicable if the framework agreement is awarded to a single tenderer:
4.16.
If the framework agreement has been concluded with one tenderer as a result of
a procurement procedure, no mini-competitions will be conducted.
4.17.
The basis for the purchase of the supply is the concluded procurement contract.
An order that has not been entered into on the procurement contract form is also
considered a procurement contract. In this subsection, a tender is considered to be
supplementing a tender within the meaning of § 30(3) of the PPA.
4.18.
In order to submit orders and enter into a procurement contract, the contracting
authority has the right to contact the contractor directly, presenting the terms and
conditions of the procurement contract. At the same time, the contracting authority
may make it mandatory to involve a local partner in the destination country in the
performance of the contract.
4.19.
The contracting authority enters into procurement contracts according to actual
needs and the contractor must be prepared for possible time breaks in the period
between the conclusion of the procurement contract.
4.20.
The purchase of the supply takes place on the basis of the technical specification
fixed in the order, which specifies the object of the procurement contract and the
technical specification and other important conditions.
4.21.
In order to order the supply, the customer submits an order to the contractor in
a format that can be reproduced in writing. An order is a written request to the
contractor to purchase supplies, either as an order letter, after which, if necessary, the
procurement contract is concluded on a specific form.
4.22.
The contracting authority shall give a reasonable time for the submission of the
tender, taking into account the technical complexity of the matter and the time
5

required for the submission of the tender. When submitting an offer, all the
requirements set out in the order must be followed.
4.23.
If the offer does not meet the terms of the order, it will be rejected.
4.24.
The contracting authority has the right to reject the tender of the procurement
contract and decide not to award the procurement contract or to declare the order
submitted in accordance with the framework agreement invalid if:
4.24.1. the tender does not meet the conditions;
4.24.2. exceeds the estimated cost, or;
4.24.3. The contracting authority does not receive approval for a full application for the
award of a procurement contract related to foreign funds.
4.25.
If necessary, a procurement contract will be concluded for the purchase of the
supply in accordance with the terms of the order. A procurement contract with a
volume of 20,000 euros or more, excluding VAT, is always concluded on the
procurement contract form and signed by the parties. The contractor undertakes to
sign the procurement contract within 3 working days of sending the procurement
contract for signature at the latest.
5. Performance of the procurement contract
5.1. The contractor shall hand over to the contracting authority the quality, quantity and
characteristics of which comply with the provisions of the procurement procurement
documents, technical specifications, order and tender.
5.2. The supply must comply with the technical requirements set out in the procurement
documents of the procurement and the contractor must have intellectual property
rights for the performance of the contract.
5.3. The contractor delivers the supply to the contracting authority by the deadline
specified in the procurement contract and to the location agreed upon in the
procurement contract.
5.4. The matter is handed over with a deed of delivery and acceptance signed by the
contractor (hereinafter the deed), in order to accept the supply, the contracting
authority signs the deed on its part, if the contracting authority has no complaints
regarding the transferred supply. The act must be signed within a reasonable time.
5.5. Together with the supply handed over by the deed, the contractor transfers all the
ownership rights of the product to the customer in accordance with the provisions of
the contract.
5.6. If the delivered supply does not comply with the conditions agreed upon in the
procurement contract, the contracting authority has the right to refuse to accept the
supply and give the contractor an additional deadline for the proper performance of
the procurement contract.
5.7. The right of ownership of the supplies and the risk of accidental destruction and
damage is transferred from the contractor to the customer upon both parties signing
the act of delivery and receipt.
6. Value of the framework agreement
6.1. The customer pays the contractor for the supply according to the tender submitted in
the mini-competition.
6.2. The volume of the framework agreement is a maximum of xx.xx (sum in words)
euros excluding VAT, which will be summed up on the basis of the procurement
contracts concluded with all contractors.
6

6.3. The customer pays the contractor for the work according to the invoices submitted,
which are in accordance with the prepared and mutually signed deed.
6.4. The contractor submits to the customer e-invoices that comply with the Estonian einvoice standard. The e-invoice must be submitted to the purchase invoice
management environment of the customer's e-invoice operator (AS Fitek). In addition
to the data specified in the standard, the e-invoice must also include the first and last
name of the customer's contact person, the procurement contract number, the
reference number of the contract part and the reference number of the public
procurement.
6.5. The invoices submitted by the contractor must clearly and unambiguously refer to the
procurement and framework contract, comply with the provisions of the act of delivery
and receipt and the requirements of the Value Added Tax Act. An invoice that does not
meet the conditions set out in this clause is not payable.
6.6. The customer pays the submitted invoices within 14 calendar days of receiving the
required invoice. The place of receipt of the amount indicated on the invoice is the
bank account number indicated by the contractor on the invoice.
6.7. The date of payment of the invoice is considered to be the date of submission of the
respective payment order to the State Treasury.
7. Intellectual Property
7.1. The intellectual property rights to the results of the service provided under the
procurement contract (e.g. training materials or other products created for the
customer) belong to the customer on the terms and conditions set out in this contract.
The fee for the transfer and licensing of copyrights is included in the procurement
contract fee.
7.2. The customer shall have all the author's proprietary rights and exclusive licence to the
results of the service, including the right to reproduce, process, distribute and make
available to the public the documents prepared by the contractor in the performance
of the procurement contract in any form and on any medium, without geographical
restrictions and for an indefinite period. The proprietary rights and exclusive licence
shall be deemed to have been transferred to the contracting authority upon the signing
of the act of delivery and receipt by the parties.
7.3. The customer has the right to freely use what has been developed under the contract,
including the right to give the work created on the basis of the procurement contract
to third parties for use.
7.4. The provisions of this chapter may be amended or specified within the framework of
the procurement contract by informing the contractors thereof within the framework
of a mini-competition.
8. Warranties
8.1. The contractor shall provide a guarantee for the supplies acquired on the basis of the
procurement contract for at least the period specified in the technical specifications.
The guarantee takes effect from the moment the supply is handed over to the
contractor and adopted by deed.
8.2. The warranty covers all defects and non-conformities that occur on the supply during
the warranty period, which have not arisen as a result of the actions of the customer
or third parties.

7

8.3. The Contractor shall eliminate any defects or non-conformities that have occurred on
the supply during the validity of the on-site warranty free of charge, including updating
or replacing all related documents.
8.4. The contractor is obliged, in particular, to carry out the following by way of warranty:
8.4.1. Troubleshooting, localizing, finding a solution to the error situation and
correcting the error when an error occurs.;
8.4.2. analysing the causes of the error and proposing preventive measures in a format
that can be reproduced in writing;
8.4.3. Installation and configuration support and related consultations in connection
with error correction.
8.5. If possible, the contracting authority shall determine the degree of criticality of the
error or whether it is another defect covered by the warranty obligation, and may set a
deadline for the elimination of the defect based on the criticality of the defects specified
in the procurement contract.
8.6. If the contractor proves that the defect eliminated was not covered by the warranty,
the contracting authority shall reimburse the direct costs incurred by the contractor in
connection with the rectification of the defect. The compensation of costs is based on
the procurement contract within the framework of which the defect has become
apparent, a reasonable fee is paid.
8.7. The customer shall provide assistance to the contractor in eliminating defects subject
to the warranty obligation within the limits of the customer's capabilities and
possibilities.
8.8. If the contractor is unable to eliminate the defects by the agreed deadline, the
contracting authority may eliminate them themselves or arrange for their elimination
with the help of a third party, notifying the contractor thereof. The customer has the
right to demand compensation from the contractor for all costs incurred in connection
with the elimination of the defect in the manner described above, if it was a defect
covered by the warranty.
9. Confidentiality obligation
9.1. The parties undertake not to disclose confidential information received under the
agreement to third parties, except in cases provided for by law.
9.2. The parties shall comply with all applicable data protection and information security
legislation.
9.3. The parties shall forward confidential information only to those persons who are
directly involved in the performance of the procurement contract and shall ensure that
such persons are aware of and comply with the requirement of confidentiality.
9.4. By confidential information, the parties mean personal data that have become known
in the course of the performance of the procurement contract and information to
which access restrictions have been imposed, as well as other information the
disclosure of which could harm the interests of the parties.
9.5. The responsibility for the performance of the confidentiality obligation lies with the
party for all persons involved by it in the performance of the contract.
9.6. The confidentiality requirement is valid for an indefinite period. Due to the nature of
the confidential information, the customer has the right to set additional requirements
and/or instructions for the processing of personal data.
9.7. The parties shall not disclose (including in the media) information created or become
known in the course of the performance of the procurement contract without the
8

written consent of the other party before the signing of the final act of delivery and
acceptance of the procurement contract.
9.8. The obligation of confidentiality is valid for an indefinite period.
10. Responsibility
10.1.
A party shall be liable for a breach of its contractual obligation, unless the breach
is excusable due to force majeure or other objective circumstances. The existence of
this fact must be proved by the party wishing to rely on it.
10.2.
A party is liable for a breach of its contractual obligation arising from the
activities of the persons involved in the performance of the procurement contract.
10.3.
A party shall not be liable for any breach of contractual obligations arising from
the breach of obligations of the other party or the acts or omissions of third parties. If
the contracting authority delays the performance of its obligations and the non-timely
performance of these obligations does not enable the contractor to perform its
obligations by the deadline, the extension of the term for delivery of the supply shall
be fixed by the corresponding time. The existence of this fact must be proved by the
party wishing to rely on it.
10.4.
In the event of a breach of an obligation, the other party has the right to use all
legal remedies arising from the law or contract in accordance with the Law of
Obligations Act.
10.5.
The total financial liability of the parties is limited to the total value of the
framework agreement, but this limitation does not apply to wrongful infringement,
including wrongful infringement in relation to intellectual property rights or data
protection obligations.
10.6.
In the event of delay in the payment of the fee, the contractor has the right to
demand interest on arrears at the rate provided for in the Law of Obligations Act from
the fee payable for the specific supply for each calendar day of delayed payment. The
maximum rate of interest on arrears is 25% of the total amount payable for a specific
supply. The claim for interest on arrears must be submitted signed.
10.7.
A breach of contractual obligations by the contractor is primarily considered to
be a situation where the transferred supply does not partially or fully comply with the
terms and conditions of the procurement contract or there are other breaches of the
procurement contract by the contractor.
10.8.
If the contractor violates a contractual obligation, the contracting authority has
the right to demand payment of a contractual penalty of up to 200 euros for each
calendar day in the violation, but not more than 25% of the total value of the
procurement contract. If the purchase of the supply has been agreed upon in stages,
then no more than 25% of the total cost of the stage.
10.9.
If, due to delays on the part of the contractor, the commissioning of the supply
is no longer realistic or necessary, the contracting authority has the right to withdraw
from the procurement contract pursuant to subsection 116 (1) of the Law of Obligations
Act and the contractor is obliged to reimburse the contracting authority for the part
already paid.
10.10.
In the event of a material breach of the contract, the contracting authority has
the right to submit a contractual penalty claim of up to 10,000 euros for each violation
to the contractor. In the event of a significant breach of a procurement contract by the
contractor, the contracting authority does not have to set an additional term specified
in § 114 of the Law of Obligations Act for the performance of the contractor's contract,
9

and the contracting authority has the right, inter alia, to cancel the procurement
contract or withdraw from the procurement contract.
10.11.
In addition to the provisions of the Law of Obligations Act, a material violation
includes, among other supplies, the following:
10.11.1.failure to award the procurement contract without a good reason or failure to
commence its performance;
10.11.2.
Misrepresentation;
10.11.3.
lack of rights (including permits, licences, intellectual property rights)
necessary for the performance of the procurement contract;
10.11.4.
violation of intellectual property rights and the terms and conditions of
their use;
10.11.5.
repeated (at least twice) replacement of a crew member by a person who
does not meet the agreed requirements, or replacement of a crew member without
the prior consent of the participant, at least in a format that can be reproduced in
writing;
10.11.6.
breach of confidentiality;
10.11.7.
repeated (at least twice) non-performance of contractual obligations;
10.11.8.
failure to deliver the matter on time in such a way that the fulfilment of
the purpose of the procurement contract is no longer realistic within the deadline
and/or due to the actions or omissions of the contractor, it is no longer possible
to use the funds intended for financing the procurement contract;
10.11.9.
transfer of contractual obligations to a third party without concluding a
corresponding amendment to the contract.
10.12.
Acceptance of the supply by the contracting authority does not release or reduce
the liability of the contractor for breach of contract.
10.13.
If the contractor fails to perform the procurement contract properly and the
implementing body makes a decision to reduce the grant or reclaim the grant on the
basis thereof, the contracting authority has the right to reclaim the ineligible costs
from the contractor to the extent of the repayment claim.
10.14.
The contracting authority undertakes to submit a claim for a contractual penalty
within a reasonable period of time, but not later than within 3 months from the date
on which the contracting authority became aware of the circumstance on which the
contractual penalty claim is based. Contesting a claim for a contractual penalty does
not release the contractor from the obligation to pay it before the relevant court
judgment enters into force.
10.15.
The Contractor is obliged to pay the contractual penalty within 14 calendar days
from the submission of the respective claim by the contracting authority, unless
otherwise specified in the contractual penalty claim.
10.16.
The contracting authority has the right to offset the amount of the contractual
penalty with the payments payable to the contractor for the supply. In the event of setoff, the obligation to pay the contractual penalty is not applied.
11. Validity of contracts
11.1. The framework agreement and the procurement agreement enter into force once the
parties have signed the agreement.
11.2.The framework agreement and the procurement contract shall be terminated upon the
performance of contractual obligations, the cancellation of the respective contract or
on any other basis arising from the law.
10

11.3.The contracting authority may terminate the framework and procurement contract at
any time in writing without prior notice. In this case, the customer undertakes to
accept the work done by the time of cancellation and pay a fee for it according to the
volume of work performed. The customer is not obliged to pay for the work or a part
thereof that does not comply with the conditions set out in the procurement contract
and its annexes.
11.4.The framework agreement and the procurement contract may be amended under the
conditions set out in the procurement contract by a written agreement between the
parties, which is formalised as an annex to the contract.
12. Forwarding notices and contact persons
12.1.Notices are generally forwarded by e-mail, subject to the terms and conditions of the
Rules of Procedure, if any. In the case of sending by e-mail, including digitally signed
documents, the notice is deemed to have been received at the time indicated in the
notice of arrival or at the time indicated in the e-mail.
12.2.
If the forwarding of the notice has significant legal consequences, the notice
must be sent digitally signed by a party with the right to sign. An informative message
can also be sent by phone. A notice that does not have legal consequences is considered
informative.
12.3.
A written notice is deemed to have been received by a party if it is handed over
against a signature or if the notice has been sent by registered mail by a post office to
the address notified by the party and 5 calendar days have passed from the posting.
12.4.
The customer's contact person(s) are: .... ..., telephone ...., e-mail: .... or his
substitute;
12.5.
The contact person(s) of the contractor are: ..., ...., phone ... E-mail: .... or his
substitute;
12.6.
It is the competence of the contact persons to provide the other party with the
necessary information and instructions within the limits of their competence, to give
consent to the change of team member, to check the quality of the procurement
contract performed, to transfer the object of the contract and to accept and sign the
act.
12.7.
If the contact person changes, a party shall immediately notify the other party
in writing.
13. Final provisions
13.1.Disputes related to the framework agreement that the parties have not been able to
resolve through negotiations will be submitted to Harju County Court for resolution.
13.2.
Estonian law applies to the framework agreement. As this is a mixed type of
contract, in addition to general contractual legal remedies, legal remedies arising from
the law must also be taken into account, which are used on the basis of Chapter 35 or
36 of the Law of Obligations Act, depending on the nature of the violation..
13.3.
In matters not regulated by the framework agreement or in a situation where a
provision of the agreement is in conflict with the law, the legislation in force in the
Republic of Estonia shall be taken into account.
14. Annexes that are not signed with the framework agreement
14.1.Annex 1 – Technical specifications;
11

14.2.
14.3.

Annex 2 – Draft procurement contract;
Annex 3 – Tenders.

15. Signatures of the parties
Contracting authority:
...

Contractors:
...

/digitally signed /

/digitally signed /

12

Draft procurement contract
Estonian Centre for International Development (hereinafter referred to as the
customer or contracting authority), registry code 90015347, Tatari street 1, 10116
Tallinn, who is represented by a member of the management board Klen Jäärats
and
_______, (hereinafter referred to as the contractor), registrikood_____, aadress____,
represented by _______
hereinafter separately or jointly the parties, entered into this procurement contract
(hereinafter referred to as the contract) on the basis of framework agreement no ____ in the
following:
1. Subject-matter of the contract
1.1. The object of the contract is the supplies/licenses/product support/___ specified in
the technical specifications of the procurement documents of the public procurement
"___" (reference number of the mini-competition ___) (hereinafter referred to as
the "supply").
1.2. The contract is funded by project No ___ . The marking of the supply is based on
___.
2. Conditions for performance of the contract
2.1. The contractor hands over the supply every day, month, year, if necessary, with
installation and configuration.
2.1.1. The validity period of the licenses is ___ ;
2.1.2. The support period is ___ ;
2.1.3. ___ .
2.2. Supplies are handed over and accepted under the conditions agreed in the technical
specifications and the framework agreement.
2.3. All the differences compared to the provisions of the framework agreement are
entered here.
3. Contract value
3.1. The customer pays a total of ___ (cost in words) euros excluding VAT for the supplies
ordered under the contract.
3.2. Supplies are handed over as follows:
3.2.1. ___;
3.2.2. ___.
3.3. The contractor has the right to submit an e-invoice after the supplies have been
adopted by deed. The invoice must indicate the name of the public procurement, the
reference number of the contract part, the procurement contract and framework
agreement number and the details of the contact person.
3.4. The payment term of the invoice must be at least 14 calendar days from the receipt of
the required invoice.
13

4. Notices and contacts between the parties1
4.1. The forwarding and delivery of notices is based on the regulation of the framework
agreement.
4.2. The customer's contact person for the performance of the contract is the ________,
phone ________, e-mail ______ or their substitute.
4.3. The contact person of the contractor in the performance of the contract is the
________, phone ________, e-mail ______ or their substitute.
5. Final provisions
5.1. The contract enters into force from the moment it is signed by the parties and is valid
until the parties perform their contractual obligations.
5.2. The contract documents consist of the procurement documents of the public
procurement, including the annexes to the contract, amendments to the contract and
the tender.
5.3. The following documents are integral parts of the contract at the time of conclusion of
the contract, which are not signed together with the procurement contract:
5.3.1. Annex 1 - Technical specifications;
5.3.2. Annex 2 – Tender;
5.3.3. ______ .
6. Signatures of the parties

Contracting authority:

Contractor:

1 To remove in a situation where the contact persons have not changed compared to the framework

agreement.

14

