of services for development of a software platform for the development
of local public services

Procurement No. 302845

Abbreviations and acronyms

  ------------------- ---------------------------------------------------
  Term/abbreviation   Meaning

  API                 Application Programming Interface – a set of rules
                      and tools enabling interaction between different
                      programs

  BPMN                Business Process Model and Notation (graphic
                      notation used for modelling business processes in
                      information systems to make them more efficient and
                      enhance their automation. It allows to build a
                      structured diagram displaying the sequence of
                      business-process stages and their dependencies)

  JSON                JavaScript Object Notation - текстовий формат
                      обміну даними, заснований на JavaScript

  PPAE                Public Procurement Act of Estonia

  Beneficiary         Zhytomyr Regional Military Administration

  Demobilzed veterans War veterans, persons who made special service to
  / veterans          the country, affected participants of the
                      Revolution of Dignity, family members of these
                      persons and family members of fallen (deceased) war
                      veterans, family members of fallen (deceased)
                      defenders of Ukraine

  Contractor          Winner of the procurement procedure with who the
                      Parties sign the procurement contract

  ESPD                European Single Procurement Document

  EDRVV               Unified State Register of War Veterans

  Electronic public   A service provided by state bodies, local
  service             self-government bodies, companies, institutions,
  (e-service)         organisations reporting to them, including
                      administrative services (also provided in the
                      automated mode) provided via information and
                      communication systems in line with an application
                      (request) submitted in electronic form via
                      information and communication systems (including
                      the Unified State Web Portal of Electronic
                      Services) or without such an application (request)

  EO                  Electronic office

  QES/AES             Advanced electronic signature based on the
                      qualified electronic signature certificate or a
                      qualified electronic signature created in
                      accordance with the Law of Ukraine “On Electronic
                      Identification and Electronic Trusted Services”

  ASC                 Administrative service centre

  NPA                 Regulations of Ukraine

  PA                  Public authority

  Contracting         e-Governance Academy (in Estonian: E-riigi
  Authority           Akadeemia)

  PB                  Private business

  Platform            Software platform for the development of local
                      public services

  Project             Development of digital municipal services for
                      demobilzed veterans in Ukraine

  PPRE                Public Procurement Register of Estonia
  ------------------- ---------------------------------------------------

Procurement of services for the development of a software platform for
the development of local public services (hereinafter referred to as the
“Platform”) is taking place as part of the international technical
assistance project “Development of Digital Municipal Services for
Demobilzed Veterans in Ukraine”, funded by EstDev (registration card of
the international technical assistance project (program) No. 6089 of 09
July 2025) (hereinafter referred to as the “Project”).

1. Goal and purpose of the Platform

Development of a programming platform for the development of local
public services to respond to the urgent need for a fast, user-friendly,
and effective access to a broad range of electronic services. This
platform must serve as a single entry point, which will significantly
facilitate interaction between veterans and local self-government
bodies, health-care facilities, educational institutions, and other
bodies that are crucial for their successful adaptation to civil life.

The main goal of the Platform is to develop a single digital platform
for local public services, in particular, improving the quality of life
of demobilzed veterans and their family members through a simpler access
to public and social services, reduced bureaucracy, and more effective
interaction with relevant public bodies.

The purpose of the Platform is to perform a number of key functions
meeting the needs of demobilzed veterans:

-   Single entry point for services: veterans must have centralized
    regional- or local-level access to electronic public services that
    they can use without having to visit different public bodies via the
    applicant’s electronic office;

-   Online registration and submission of documents: veterans must be
    able to register for visits to required specialists as well as
    submit applications and required documents in electronic form;

-   Information hub: veterans must receive up-to-date and credible
    information about legal changes, state support programmes,
    entitlements, veteran organisations, and other resources;

-   Simplified interaction with state bodies: bureaucracy must be
    reduced through electronic data exchange and automated process for
    filing applications and receiving responds from authorities;

-   Veteran community: it must be possible to establish a community or a
    forum for experience exchange and mutual support among veterans.

Overall, the Platform for demobilzed veterans must be a reliable,
transparent, and user-friendly tool enabling veterans to exercise their
rights fast and without impediments, obtain services they are entitled
to, and reintegrate into society successfully after their return to
civil life. Service providers can use the Platform to inform about their
services, manage the service delivery process, monitor service delivery,
analyse the needs of their target groups, and improve their processes.
It is an investment in the future of our defenders and their families.

2. Composition of the services

The services cover the development of the Platform that includes the
following components:

-   Module “Management system for electronic public services”;

-   EO of the PA providing local services;

-   EO of the PB providing local services;

-   Client for the service of interaction with the EDRVV via the
    Trembita data-exchange bus;

-   Electronic office of the applicant for obtaining services from a
    local administration;

-   Module for obtaining digital copies and metadata of documents
    through Diia.Sharing;

-   Module of integration with the public portal of a local
    self-government body or a local state administration;

-   Module of integration with the mobile application of a local
    self-government body or a local state administration;

-   Development of 3 local public services for demobilzed veterans.

[Participants of.png]

3. Functional requirements

3.1. Module “Management system for electronic public services”

The module must be designed to manage and set up the service delivery
processes. Each service must be designed as a separate business process
described with the BPMN notation and programmed in the module’s process
design tool. This business process consists of logically completed
blocks. Each block has the below functionality in line with its
respective type:

-   Process start and completion;

-   Completion of the user form and generation of a document or an
    application signed with a QES/AES;

-   Gateway for logical operations;

-   Messaging.

A framework designed specifically for the module is use for the block
configuration. The framework is based on JSON along with the list of
controls required for services implementation.

The module must have the option and functionality for setting up
e-services and e-services for PB.

The module must have a subsystem for logging the actions of users, which
includes the time, user ID, operation type, and the network address.

The module must have a subsystem for compiling reporting and statistical
information.

3.2. Central directory of municipal services

The central directory of municipal services is a public catalogue with a
search system that contains service descriptions as below:

1.  Order reference (for electronic services);

2.  Description of the service delivery procedure;

3.  List of the required documents;

4.  Service delivery duration;

5.  User identification procedure (for electronic services);

6.  Service price and payment procedures;

7.  References to regulations and other sources;

8.  Provider’s contact data.

3.3. Applicant’s electronic office for obtaining services from a local
administration

The applicant’s EO shall allow a user authorized via Diia.Signature
and/or QES/AES and/or Bank.ID to apply for a public local service.

The applicant’s EO shall display a catalogue of services available for
the Applicant containing their description, delivery procedure and
timelines depending on the Applicant’s status verified through
electronic interaction.

The applicant’s EO shall be able to save drafts of submitted
applications with the option to continue data entry, view the history of
previously submitted application along with their processing status,
and, if available for a specific service, the service delivery results.

3.4. EO of a public authority providing local services

The EO of a service provider must automate the work of authorized
persons deciding on public service delivery.

The provider’s EO must implement the log of applications and completed
service assignments operating along with the search and selection system
using specified criteria.

The provider’s EO must be designed to process (including package
processing) applications from a multi-channel entry programming
interface (electronic office, portal, mobile application) and capture
the application source. The processing includes the operation of the
interface of the authorized person who examines an application and
attached documents as well as enters the official decision (approval or
reasoned rejection) along with the time and her/his official data.

The provider’s EO must enable the functioning of the user notification
subsystem (e-mail, messengers).

The module shall enable interaction with local information systems via
electronic interaction (mainly through the API), including Trembita
tools or by sending applications in e-format to the respective document
management systems (including via SEV OVV). It shall also be possible to
receive applications from other sources (ASC etc.).

The EO of a public authority must enable users to process and enter
decisions on proposals concerning the provision of services by private
business.

3.5. EO of a private business (PB) providing local services

The EO of a private business must allow representatives of private
business entities to send proposals concerning delivery of services to
discharged veterans through the Platform. Submitted proposals shall
contain descriptions of service delivery procedures and the planned
number of provided services for a specific period. Filing a proposal
shall be considered as a consent to join the public offer with the
obligation to comply with the declared service delivery procedure and
service quality. Submitted proposals are examined by the representative
of a local authority.

The PB EO shall display the decision of a local authority on the
approval of a specific service for being provided on the Platform by a
private business.

The Platform shall generate impersonalized service assignments with a
unique code (QR and digital code) based on submitted applications and
reported surplus capacities of private businesses for service delivery
in a specific period.

The PB EO shall display service assignments and allow to set marks
confirming the actual service provision as per a specific assignment.

3.6. Client for the service of interaction with the EDRVV via the
Trembita data-exchange bus

A Client must be developed for the service of interaction with the EDRVV
via the Trembita data-exchange bus. A specification for data exchange
with the EDRVV service must be prepared for the client. In addition, a
draft contract on information interaction must be prepared.

3.7. Module for obtaining digital copies and metadata of documents
through Diia.Sharing

The module must be designed to provide digital copies and metadata of
the applicant’s documents when filling in applications in the EO of a
local administration.

An authorized User (Applicant) must be able to initiate a request for
the digital copies and metadata of a specific document (biometric
passports: ID card, travel passport, taxpayer card, certificate of an
IDP, driver’s license, vehicle registration certificate, student card,
education certificates, veteran card, birth records, name-change
records, marriage and divorce records). After the User has provided a
confirmation in the Diia mobile application, the System must accept the
respective document and data. Based on this, the received data are added
to the draft application for a public local service.

3.8. Module of integration with the public portal of a local
administration

The module must enable the operation of the unified authorization model
of the public portal of a local administration and the EK of a local
administration and a provider for service delivery. Integration with the
portal must allow to provide consolidated statistical reporting
information (dashboard) to be published on the portal.

3.9. Module of integration with the mobile application of a local
administration

The module of integration with the mobile application of a local
administration must allow to receive the data of an application for a
public local service to process them in the EO for local service
delivery.

3.10. Development of 3 local public services for demobilzed veterans

The specific services will be determined at the stage of consultation
with the Beneficiary.

4. Non-functional requirements

4.1. Applied software requirements

The applied software shall be based on a free software that does not
require any licenses for non-commercial use.

4.2. User interface requirements

-   The interface must be simple and clear, so users can easily find
    required information and perform their operations;

-   The interface must comply with the official design code;

-   The design shall be displayed correctly and function on different
    gadgets with different screen sizes (adaptivity);

-   The interface shall be accessible for users with specials needs;

-   The interface design must ensure fast download and efficient
    operation;

-   Users must receive clear feedback on their actions like confirmation
    of a successful execution or failure messages;

-   A user experience analysis shall be conducted prior to prototyping.
    It must be based on a “user path” description to better understand
    users’ needs and expectations;

-   Interactive prototypes must be created for testing and approval
    prior to the development start (tools like Figma, Adobe XD, or
    Sketch must be used);

-   Data exchange shall be supported via interaction interfaces,
    including SEV DEITR (Trembita).

The Platform shall provide tools for steering and distributing user
rights concerning access to information, functions, modules.

4.3. Organisational requirements

The following measures are taken by the Parties to ensure the quality of
the Services:

The Contracting Authority shall provide the Contractor and/or the
Beneficiary with materials that are required for service provision. All
pecuniary intellectual property rights to all intellectual property
objects and any other intellectual property objects (including all
documentation, descriptions, conditions, reports, manuals, or any other
written materials) created in full by the Contractor, its employees, or
subcontractors shall be transferred for free to the
Beneficiary/Recipient, once the Parties have signed respective
Acceptance and Transfer Certificates for the Computer Programs under the
respective stage. All pecuniary intellectual property rights to all
intellectual property objects created in the course of service provision
under this Contract belong to the Ukrainian state represented by the
Beneficiary/Recipient.

4.4. Integration requirements

Integration with the EDRVV shall be enabled as part of the Platform
development.

The Trembita system for electronic interaction between state electronic
information resources shall be used as a gateway for information
exchange between systems.

4.5. Development prospects and further modernization of the Services

Detailed requirements are specified during the development of the Terms
of Reference.

It shall be possible to modernize and scale up the developed Platform
with minimum time consumption concerning the following functions:

-   Vertical (increase of the computing capacity of the unified
    platform, access distribution – also for several administrative
    units) and horizontal (deployment of several platforms in different
    regions) scalability in terms of workload and performance;

-   Hierarchic management of the region’s portals: setup of the portal
    pages (names, contact data, etc.), distribution of the access
    rights, administration of users, setup of services, including
    copying from the central directory along with the entry of required
    municipality-specific parameters;

-   Editing of the “mandatory/non-mandatory” settings and parameters of
    the fields in electronic forms;

-   Add-up of additional automatic checks (including those involving
    electronic interactions).

4.6. Methodological requirements

The Contractor shall prepare the required documentation for the
developed Platform and provide the below technical documents:  

-   Terms of Reference for the Platform development;

-   User manuals for the Platform;

-   Administrator manual;

-   General installation, setup, backup copying, and data recovery
    instructions;

-   Preliminary testing programme and methodology;

-   Protocol of the Platform’s preliminary testing;

-   Source codes (coding results) on an optical data carrier.

  All documentation shall be prepared and provided in printed form
  (original) signed with QES as well as in electronic form (copy) in the
  Microsoft Word format.  

All documents shall be made in Ukrainian. 

4.7. Information requirements

Information supply shall meet the following requirements:

-   Physical and logical data integrity;

-   Minimum volume of excessive saved data;

-   Standard form of data presentation;

-   Credibility and relevance of data.

4.8. Warranty support

The deployed Platform shall have warranty support (correction of errors,
etc.) for six months after the signing of the Acceptance and Transfer
Certificate for the Platform under the last stage.

  The coding services include warranty support for the Platform as
  below:

-   Monitoring of the Platform operation;

-   Response to incidents that cause the incorrect operation of the
    Platform;

-   Server configuration, recovery of the Platform operations in case of
    failures;

-   Check of logs and errors in the industrial environment in accordance
    with the agreed regulations and technical requirements;

-   Correction of detected errors and failures in the Platform operation
    and settings;

-   Analysis and correction of errors in the business processes through
    BPMN 2.0;

-   Settings required for the proper functioning of the Platform;

-   Hotline for users (phone number, messenger selected by the
    Beneficiary/Recipient, e-mail).

  Information exchange between the Contractor and the other Contract
  Parties, operational control of the service delivery progress and
  response to claims take place via GitLab as well as per e-mail.

  The response time of the Contractor to received tasks shall not exceed
  3 business days and 1 business day for high-priority tasks. The
  priority level of tasks is determined depending on their relevance for
  the Platform’s permanent accessibility and operability.

5. Legal references

-   Law of Ukraine “On Information”;

-   Law of Ukraine “On the National Informatization Programme”;

-   Law of Ukraine “On Applications Filed by Citizens”;

-   Law of Ukraine “On Access to Public Information”;

-   Law of Ukraine “On Information Protection in
    Information-Communication Systetms”;

-   Law of Ukraine “On Personal Data Protection”;

-   Law of Ukraine “On Public Electronic Registers”;

-   Law of Ukraine “On the Status of War Veterans, Guarantees for Their
    Social Protection”;

-   Law of Ukraine “On the Social and Legal Protection of Military
    Personnel and Their Family Members” ;

-   Law of Ukraine “On Pensions for Persons Discharged from Military
    Services and Other Selected Persons”;

-   Law of Ukraine “On Mandatory General State Pension Insurance”;

-   Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 94 of 16
    February 1994 “On the Procedure of Granting Entitlements Specified
    in the Law of Ukraine “On the Status of War Veterans, Their Social
    Protection Entitlements””;

-   Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 700 of 14
    August 2019 “On the Unified State Register of War Veterans”;

-   Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 740 of 23
    September 2015 “On the Approval of the Procedure for Acknowledging
    the Status of a Family Member of a Fallen (Deceased) Defender of
    Ukraine”;

-   Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 881 of 02
    August 2024 “On Selected Issues Concerning Support for the
    Activities of Specialists Caring for War Veterans and Persons
    Discharged from Military Service”;

-   Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 373 of 29
    March 2006 “On the Approval of the Rules for Information Protection
    in Information, Electronic Communication and
    Information-Communication Systems”;

-   Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 205 of 21
    February 2025 “On Selected Issues Concerning the Development,
    Administration, and Functioning of an Informatization Tool”.
