Tender specifications
Procurement of services for development of a software platform for the
development of local public services (Ukraine)

Procurement No: 302845

1.  Introduction

  This procurement is made by the e-Governance Academy (Estonia)
  (hereinafter referred to as the “Contracting Authority”) to purchase
  services for development of a software platform for the development of
  local public services (hereinafter referred to as the “Services”) in
  accordance with the Technical Requirements (Annex 1) and the draft
  Procurement Contract (Annex 2).

  Provisions of the Public Procurement Act of Estonia (hereinafter also
  referred to as “PPAE”) apply to this procurement, while all issues
  concerning the fulfilment of the procurement contract are regulated by
  the law of the Republic of Estonia, if not stated otherwise. Any
  disputes shall be settled by Estonian courts within the jurisdiction
  of the Republic of Estonia.

  This Procurement is funded by the Estonian Centre for International
  Development (EstDev).

2.  Abbreviations and acronyms

+-----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Contracting Authority | e-Governance Academy (Estonia)               |
+-----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Beneficiary           | Zhytomyr regional military administration    |
+-----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Contractor            | The winner of the procurement procedure with |
|                       | whom the procurement contract is signed      |
+-----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Power of attorney     | Written document issued by a party for       |
|                       | another party to exercise representative     |
|                       | functions towards third parties              |
+-----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| PPAE                  | Public Procurement Act of Estonia            |
+-----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| ePPR                  | Estonian Public Procurement Register         |
|                       | www.riigihanked.riik.ee                      |
+-----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| ESPD                  | European single procurement document         |
+-----------------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Affiliated persons    | Shareholders (natural persons and/or legal   |
|                       | entities that own 10% or more of the         |
|                       | tenderer's authorized capital),              |
|                       | beneficiaries, executive officers, members   |
|                       | of procurement commissions, management       |
|                       | members and members of boards of directors,  |
|                       | ultimate beneficial owners, etc.             |
|                       |                                              |
|                       | Affiliated persons of the tenderer are also  |
|                       | the above-mentioned persons of the           |
|                       | consortium members, subcontractors, or       |
|                       | persons whose funds/experience the tenderer  |
|                       | relies on                                    |
+-----------------------+----------------------------------------------+

3.  Subject of the procurement contract

    1.  The Services are procured for the Beneficiary to develop a
        unified digital platform of local public services, specifically
        for demobilized veterans. This platform must be designed to
        provide fast and user-friendly access to social, health-care,
        and educational services at the local level. While reducing
        bureaucracy and streamlining interaction between municipalities
        and civil institutions, the platform will be contributing to
        reintegration of veterans in civil life as well as improve the
        quality of life for their families in line with the terms of the
        Technical Requirements (Annex 1) and the draft Procurement
        Contract (Annex 2).

    2.  Taxation of the procurement – the procurement is not subject to
        VAT and any other taxes.

    3.  Expected timeline for the fulfilment of the contract - up to 4
        months after its entry into force (after its signing by all
        Parties), but no later than 31.03.2026.

    4.  Estimated term of the procurement contract is from the moment
        the procurement contract enters into force (from the moment of
        its signing by all Parties) up to 4 months (but no longer than
        until 31.03.2026).

    5.  The Services specified in the procurement contract shall be
        provided on the territory of Ukraine and/or remotely from the
        Contractor’s location, which is subject to the character and
        technology capabilities for the provision of Services.

4.  Validity period of the tender proposal

3 months after the tender submission deadline.

5.  Tender procedure

    1.  Tender proposals shall be prepared and submitted in accordance
        with the tender proposal requirements listed below.

    2.  Tender proposals may be submitted by legal entities, natural
        persons, and individual entrepreneurs, as well as by tenderers
        acting jointly (co-tenderers). Any tenderer may act through a
        duly authorized representative. Co-tenderers must appoint a
        representative authorized to sign and submit the tender and to
        act on their behalf throughout the procurement process. Such
        powers shall be confirmed by a Power of attorney. All joint
        tenderers shall bear joint and several liability for their
        tender proposal and for the performance of any contract awarded
        based on their tender.

    3.  Economic operators, including any entities whose
        capacities/resources the Tenderer relies upon, whose place of
        residence or registered office is located in the Russian
        Federation or the Republic of Belarus are not eligible to
        participate in the procurement procedure.

    4.  This procurement procedure is not divided into separate lots.
        The subject of the procurement is indivisible, as it concerns
        the development of an integrated software solution that cannot
        be separated as it constitutes one integrated solution. Engaging
        a single service provider to fulfil the order ensures
        consistency in development, reduces integration risks, and
        allows to use the Contracting Authority´s financial resources
        effectively.

    5.  In accordance with § 85 (6) and § 86 of the PPAE, the
        Contracting Authority shall calculate the life-cycle costs of
        the Services, which is not completely possible for this
        particular procurement procedure. In the present project,
        purchased Services are not kept by the Contracting Authority –
        they are transferred to the Recipient. Hence, the Contracting
        Authority is not in position to calculate the life-cycle costs.
        However, the Contracting Authority has taken into consideration,
        to the best of its knowledge, all the previous Services, so that
        the present Services are compatible with all existing
        technologies and equipment in line with their purpose and the
        possibility of using them until the end of their life cycle.

    6.  According to § 52 (3) of the PPAE, the Contracting Authority
        may, prior to verifying the grounds for exclusion and
        qualification, examine the Tender Proposals for their compliance
        with the requirements set out in the procurement documents and
        assess the respective tenders. In such cases, the Contracting
        Authority ensures that the contract is not awarded to a tenderer
        who should have been excluded from the procurement procedure or
        who does not meet the selection criteria.

    7.  Any reference made by the Contracting authority in the
        invitation to one of the grounds specified in subsections §
        88 (2) or (6) of the Public Procurement Act must be read as
        supplemented by the notation "or equivalent".

6.  Requirements to the tender proposal

    1.  Tender proposals shall be submitted through the Public
        Procurement Register of Estonia (ePPR) available under the link
        https://riigihanked.riik.ee. All the forms and documents in the
        tender proposal must be made in English (if necessary, with
        translation into English). The tender proposal shall be signed;
        if signed by hand, it shall be submitted in a scanned form (with
        a clearly visible handwritten signature by the legal or trusted
        representative for a legal entity or an individual entrepreneur
        acting under civil law or for a different form of a company).
        English is also the acknowledged official language for
        interpreting all relevant provisions and terms. Forms and
        documents made in other languages shall be considered as
        non-official recommendatory translations of procurement
        documents originally made in English, except for documents
        issued by authorities of Ukraine or the documentation that
        proves conformity with the qualification criteria.

    2.  Tenderers shall submit the following documents along with their
        tender proposals:

6.2.1. European single procurement document (ESPD);

6.2.2. Application form (Annex 3 to the Tender Specifications). In case
of any discrepancies between the presented information in Annex 3 and
data in the Public Procurement Register of Estonia, the Contracting
Authority gives preference to Annex 3.

3.  Where the Technical Requirements require a Service description, the
    tenderer shall attach a Service Description explaining the scope and
    content of the Services and how the tender complies with the
    Technical Requirements.

4.  ESPD for the joint tenderer, subcontractor or for the person whose
    capacities the tenderer relies on. The tender proposal must specify
    the scope, volume, and content of the parts of the contract to be
    performed by each joint tenderer (member) in their tender.

5.  If the tenderer relies on equivalence, it shall submit documentary
    proof along with its tender proposal to confirm that its offered
    services meet the requirements set out in this document and are
    equal to the required Services.

6.  Tenderers shall include in their tender an Accessibility Conformance
    Statement or an equivalent description of measures taken to ensure
    accessibility as specified in the Technical Requirements.

7.  The tenderer shall also submit a certificate in a free form issued
    in English to confirm that the tenderer is not subject to personal
    special economical and other restrictive measures (sanctions) that
    are (could be) imposed pursuant to the Law of Ukraine “On
    Sanctions”, decisions of authorized international bodies and
    individual states (specifically, the UN Security Council and its
    committees, the EU, the USA, etc.), decisions of the National
    Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, any other law or regulatory
    and legal act of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of
    Europe, the European Union, the United Kingdom, the USA, the UN
    Security Council as well as a Law of Ukraine and/or Decree of the
    President of Ukraine imposing sectoral and personal special economic
    and other restrictions (sanctions) on individuals and/or legal
    entities committing terrorist or other acts considered dangerous for
    society.

2.  Tender proposals shall not include any restrictive or any other
    conditions. Tender proposals that are subject to restrictive
    conditions shall be declined.

3.  The tender proposal shall contain the total price of the Services to
    be delivered, which means that the tender proposal shall cover all
    above objectives and terms of the Procurement.

4.  The tender proposal must specify the total price of the Services to
    be delivered and must cover all objectives and terms of the
    Procurement without VAT and all other taxes[1]. The price must be
    specified in the ePPR form and in Annex 3 in euros (EUR) with
    two (2) decimal places. Negative prices are not allowed.

5.  The Contracting Authority is entitled to request additional
    documents or to ask for clarification concerning submitted
    documents.

6.  Selection criteria

    1.  Technical and professional capability (as per 1(2) of § 101
        PPAE): the tenderer shall provide references for at least
        two (2) similar contracts duly fulfilled in the last 36 months
        preceding the commencement of this procurement procedure. A
        similar contract is deemed to be a contract:

-   with a duration of at least 6 months per contract;

-   whose subject refers to services for developing software or
    information-telecommunication systems or software platforms
    establishing BPMN-based visual description of business processes,
    operation of electronic offices with a specified set of functions in
    line with the distribution of access rights including the option to
    view messages, applications, and statuses;

-   onboarding services, support of the ID.GOV.UA integrated electronic
    identification system, interface programming based on JSON and XML,
    API operation using REST and SOAP via access gateways similar to the
    Trembita system for electronic interaction between public electronic
    information resources, flexible integration with mobile
    applications, automation tools for continuous integration and
    delivery, a search system for log analysis and full-text search,
    support of the WCAG 2.1 web content accessibility guidelines, use of
    UI libraries for consistent style features, application status
    tracking, e-mail notifications, integration with payment services,
    operation of object-oriented databases, use of JavaScript, HTML5,
    and CSS3 coding languages, adaptive design in the Diia guideline;

-   with the total value of at least EUR 40,000 using the above
    technologies.

  To comply with this requirement, the tenderer must:

-   enter the data of the fulfilled similar contracts in Annex 3,
    including the subject of the contract, the customer, the contract
    duration, and the name of the customer’s contact person, the
    customer’s phone number and e-mail address (by providing data in
    Annex 3 the tenderer confirms the proper execution of the
    contracts);

-   provide copies of the similar contracts or conformity letters from
    the customers for these contracts or reference letters signed by the
    customers or other similar documents proving the fulfilment of such
    contracts and the use of the above-mentioned technologies.

    1.  Availability of duly trained and qualified personnel (as per
        1(3) of § 101 PPAE): the tenderer shall have a team to meet the
        Technical Requirements and the draft Сontract as well as confirm
        the availability of the following employees holding an academic
        degree in IT or equivalent certificates:

-   Project manager;  

-   Business analyst;  

-   Backend developer;   

-   Frontend developer;   

-   System administrator;   

-   Kubernetes expert;   

-   Database developer;   

-   Software quality assurance specialist (tester/QA Manual);   

-   Technical support manager.

  It is allowed to submit the documents of one employee for several team
  positions.

  To comply with this requirement, the tenderer must:

-   enter the employees’ surnames, names, positions, and education
    degree in Annex 3;

-   provide copies of the employees’ education documents (copies of
    diplomas or relevant certificates).

  By signing and submitting Annex 3 the tenderer confirms and guarantees
  that it has obtained the written/electronic (signed with the QES/EDS)
  consent for personal data processing from all persons who will be
  engaged by the tenderer in any way for the procurement process.

1.  Economic and financial status (as per 4(1) of § 100 PPAE): the total
    turnover of the tenderer for the last three financial years (prior
    to the start of this procurement procedure) must be at least EUR
    160,000 in total.

  To comply with this requirement, the tenderer must:

-   enter its financial status data in Annex 3 stating its turnover for
    the last three financial years – separately for each year;

-   provide relevant documents - a copy of the annual tax return and a
    bank statement for the above period or its annual report.

    1.  Tenderers who submit a joint tender can rely on the competence
        of their co-tenderers to confirm their own economic and
        financial status as well as technical and professional
        competence. The tenderer shall indicate in the respective part
        of Annex 3 the volume and content of each part of the contract
        that is to be fulfilled by its co-tenderer.

    2.  If the tenderer wants to confirm its economic and financial
        status or technical and professional competence based on the
        funds/experience of other companies, the tenderer shall also
        submit the ESPD for the legal entity whose funds/experience it
        relies on.

    3.  If the tenderer wants to confirm its financial status or
        technical and professional competence based on the
        funds/experience of another company, the tenderer shall specify
        in the respective part of Annex 3 that this company has relevant
        funds/experience, is willing to use them and that the tenderer
        makes use of them when fulfilling the procurement contract. The
        company whose funds or experience are used by the tenderer to
        comply with the requirements to its economic and financial
        status shall be actually participating in the fulfilment of the
        procurement contract.

    4.  The Contracting Authority shall check whether the company whose
        funds/experience the tenderer relies on meets the qualification
        requirements in regard to which the tenderer relies on this
        company’s funds/experience.

    5.  The Contracting Authority applies § 103 (6) of the PPAE and may
        require the replacement of an excluded or unqualified tenderer.

    6.  The Contracting Authority is entitled to request additional
        documents or to ask for clarification concerning submitted
        documents.

7.  Exclusion criteria 

    1.  The Contracting Authority will exclude a tenderer and will not
        sign the contract if there is a mandatory exclusion ground under
        PPAE § 95(1) in place. The Contracting Authority may also decide
        to exclude the tenderer based on the grounds for voluntary
        exclusion grounds (§ 95 (4) PPAE). A tenderer can submit,
        together with its tender, a proof of corrective actions
        (“self-cleaning”) taken to restore its reliability in accordance
        with PPAE § 97.

    2.  Prior to signing the contract, the Contracting Authority
        verifies the grounds for exclusion of the tender through the
        ESPD taking into account updated statements and remarks
        concerning the absence of the exclusion reasons in accordance
        with the ESPD form referred to in the ePPR. If a joint tender
        proposal or a tender is based on the capacities of another
        entity (economic/financial status or technical/professional
        capability), the ESPD shall also be submitted for each of such
        entities.

    3.  The tenderer shall submit the following documents to confirm the
        absence of reasons for its exclusion:

        1.  for legal entities or individual entrepreneurs – excerpt or
            certificate from the register of legal entities or another
            authorized body of the tenderer’s country of residence
            confirming its official registration. Estonian companies
            shall be checked via the ePPR; 

        2.  if the tenderer’s country of residence has a relevant
            dedicated register of corruption-related activities, an
            excerpt or certificate shall be obtained from such a
            register to prove the absence of the tenderer and its
            Affiliated persons in this. Ukrainian companies shall be
            checked via the portal https://corruptinfo.nazk.gov.ua;

        3.  a criminal liability certificate, a (non-)conviction
            certificate or a certificate of restrictions imposed against
            the tenderer and its Affiliated persons in accordance with
            criminal procedure regulations. Estonian companies shall be
            checked via the ePPR; 

        4.  a certificate confirming that the tenderer does not have any
            debts concerning taxes, charges, and fees in its country of
            residence that are subject to control by fiscal authorities.
            Ukrainian companies obtain this certificate in printed or
            electronic form (via the electronic service “Electronic
            taxpayer’s office”) from the competent unit of the State Tax
            service of Ukraine. The certificate shall be valid as of the
            day of its submission. The certificate in electronic form
            shall be accessible for viewing by the Contracting Authority
            in the public (open) part of the Electronic taxpayer’s
            office. Estonian companies shall be checked via the ePPR. 

8.  Submission of documents, list of documents 

    1.  The tenderer shall provide the filled in and signed application
        form in English (Annex 3), which includes the tender price offer
        excluding VAT and any other taxes[2].

    2.  The tenderer shall submit the European single procurement
        document (ESPD).

    3.  The tenderer shall also submit the European Single Procurement
        Document (ESPD) for the joint tenderer, subcontractor or a
        person whose capacities the tenderer relies on.

    4.  Along with the Application Form, the tenderer shall submit
        documents proving its experience in fulfilling similar contracts
        as per paragraph 7.1 of this document.

    5.  Along with the Application Form, the tenderer shall submit
        documents proving that the tenderer’s team meets the
        requirements as per paragraph 7.2 of this document.

    6.  Along with the Application Form, the tenderer shall submit
        documents confirming its turnover for the last three financial
        years prior to the commencement of this procurement as per
        paragraph 7.3 of this document.

    7.  The tenderer shall submit the documents mentioned in paragraphs
        6.2.3-6.2.7 of this document.

    8.  The tenderer shall submit the documents mentioned in paragraph
        8.3 of this document confirming the absence of reasons for its
        mandatory exclusion (§ 95(1) PPAE) along with the tender
        proposal. If a joint tender proposal is submitted, a
        subcontractor is engaged or if the tenderer relies on the funds
        of a third company, such documents shall also be submitted for
        all parties participating in the procurement procedure.

    9.  The documents mentioned in paragraphs 9.1 – 9.8 of this document
        shall be submitted along with the tender proposal. If the
        tenderer does not submit the documents mentioned in paragraphs
        9.4-9.8 of this document together with the tender proposal, it
        shall submit them within 3 working days from the date of the
        request from the Contracting Authority. The Contracting
        Authority can extend the period for the submission of the
        documents.

9.  Criteria for the selection of the winner

    1.  The lowest price: the procurement contract shall be signed with
        the tenderer who offers the lowest price. 

    2.  The tender proposal with the lowest price receives the highest
        score. Other tender proposals receive a score calculated with
        the following formula: “100” - (“bid price” – “lowest bid
        price”) / “highest bid price” * “100”.

    3.  If two or more eligible tenders offer the same lowest total
        price, the winner will be selected by drawing lots among them.
        The terms and conditions for drawing lots will be sent to the
        tenderers in advance via the ePPR. Authorized representatives of
        the tenderers have the right to attend the drawing procedure.
        The Contracting Authority will prepare a procedural record
        specifying the tenders with the same score that are admitted to
        the draw.

10. Rejection of all tender proposals

    1.  All tender proposals can be rejected, if the price of all tender
        proposals exceeds the total expected price of the Procurement.

11. Cancellation of the procurement procedure

    1.  The Contracting Authority reserves the right to cancel the
        procurement procedure at any time prior to the conclusion of the
        contract in the following cases:

        1.  None of the received tenders complies with the requirements
            set out in the procurement documents;

        2.  The circumstances that led to the initiation of the
            procurement procedure have changed and the running
            procurement procedure no longer serves the intended purpose
            or the Contracting Authority’s interests;

        3.  The financial resources foreseen for the procurement are no
              longer available or insufficient to cover the cost of the
              most economically beneficial tender;

        4.  Material errors or irregularities have been detected in the
            procurement process, which cannot be remedied without
            restarting the procedure;

        5.  Any other grounds for cancellation arise as specified in the
            applicable public procurement legislation;

        6.  The Contracting Authority takes a decision that makes the
            Procurement impossible or impractical.

    2.  In case of cancellation, all tenderers shall be informed in a
        written form accordingly. The Contracting Authority shall not be
        liable for any costs incurred by the tenderers in connection
        with the preparation and submission of their tenders.

12. Contract provisions

    1.  All Services under the procurement contract shall be provided on
        the territory of Ukraine and/or remotely from the Contractor’s
        location, which is subject to the character and technology
        capabilities for the provision of Services.

    2.  The Contracting Authority can be replaced by a different legal
        entity due to significant changes occur, such as merger,
        division or departmental restructuring, or if the procurement
        contract is handed over to a different contracting authority.

    3.  The tenderer can be replaced by a new tenderer meeting the
        selection criteria as per the tender documents, provided that
        the Contracting Authority granted its consent in advance and in
        cases determined in the PPAE. Tenderers are replaced in
        accordance with an electronic or written request submitted by
        the Contracting Authority.

    4.  The timeline for the execution of the procurement contract can
        only be extended with the prior written consent of the
        Contracting Authority and in cases determined in the PPAE.

    5.  At the request of the Recipient, the project’s Contractor can
        hand over the work results in the form of ready-to-use products
        to third parties.

    6.  The procurement contract can be subject to changes in accordance
        with § 123 PPAE and in any below case, but not limited to, when:

        1.  it becomes impossible to fulfil the contract within its
            validity period due to circumstances caused by the
            Recipient, state bodies of Ukraine, the pandemic or the
            Russian aggression against Ukraine and its consequences that
            can be influenced neither by the Contracting Authority nor
            by the tenderer (change of the validity period);

        2.  it becomes impossible to fulfil the contract within its
            validity period due to circumstances arising in the course
            of its execution (approvals by authorities) that cannot be
            influenced neither by the Contracting Authority nor by the
            tenderer. In this case, the duration of the contract can be
            extended by the time of the end of the circumstances (change
            of the validity period);

        3.  if new legal acts are adopted or enter into force during the
            performance of the procurement contract that make it
            necessary to adjust or supplement the Services for their
            legal compliance. The changes to the Services must be
            directly related to the implementation of new legislation or
            regulations concerning functionality, security,
            data-protection or other legal requirements to the IT
            solution; they must not alter the overall nature of the
            procurement contract or the main project objectives. If the
            procurement contract price increases or the timelines for
            Service delivery change as a result of changes in
            legislation, the procurement contract can be amended to
            reflect additional costs and, if necessary, the contract’s
            fulfilment period can be extended under the following
            conditions:

(a) the reimbursement of additional costs shall be documented and
      proportionate to the actual costs of complying with the new
      requirements. The value of the modifications may not exceed 20% of
      the original procurement contract price;

(b) any extension of the timeline for the contract fulfilment shall be
      reasonable and proportionate to the duration of implementing the
      changes required to comply with the new requirements. The
      extension may not exceed 35% of the original duration of the
      procurement contract;

    1.  if the eligibility period of the project is extended by the
        party that granted support to the Contracting Authority using EU
        Structural Funds. The extension of the eligibility period is
        linked to the decision of the grantor allowing to extend the
        project’s implementation period to achieve the project
        objectives in the best possible way and to meet the funding
        conditions.

    1.  The Contracting Authority can demand amendments to the сontract
        at its own discretion, if the intellectual property rights are
        changed in favour of the Contracting Authority or the Recipient.
        Such amendments shall be made in written and shall be signed by
        all parties of the procurement contract.

    2.  The Contracting Authority can demand amendments to the
        procurement contract at its own discretion, if it is necessary
        to conclude and to sign an agreement on personal data processing
        in accordance with EU Regulation 2016/679. If such amendments
        have been made, the Contracting Authority and the Recipient are
        considered the Personal Data Controllers, and the tenderer is
        considered the Personal Data Processor. The related risks shall
        be included in the tender price.

    3.  The Contracting Authority collects and processes personal data
        in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 on the protection
        of natural persons in regards to the processing of personal data
        by the Union institutions and bodies (hereinafter referred to as
        the “GDPR”). Processing is based on article 6(1)(c) of the PPAE
        and the GDPR. Personal data are processed to conduct the
        procurement procedure, including tender assessment, verification
        of qualification requirements, actions related to contract
        conclusion and performance, as well as to ensure transparency,
        reporting and control of the procurement, including audits and
        supervision related to the use of the Structural Funds. No
        automated decision-making or profiling mechanisms are used for
        the personal data submitted in tenders.

    4.  Access can be granted to the members of the tender committee,
        engaged legal advisors (internal or external), the head of the
        Contracting Authority or a person appointed by the head of the
        Contracting Authority as well as to supervisory/audit bodies. In
        case of a dispute, data can be made available to a court. If
        international sanctions apply, data can be made available to the
        Financial Intelligence Unit or any other competent authority.

    5.  For issues not regulated in this section, the Contracting
        Authority follows its privacy policy published on its website
        (https://ega.ee/privacy-policy/).

13. Timelines for the submission of tender proposals

Tender proposals shall be submitted not later than on 03.12.2025 at
12:00 Kyiv time (EET).

Tender proposals will be opened in electronic form in the еPPR on
03.12.2025 starting from 13:00 Kyiv time (EET).

14. Contact data of the Contracting Authority

Technical issues: Serhii Karelin, serhii.karelin@ega.ee

Tender procedures: Kadi Karus, kadi.karus@ega.ee

All questions concerning this procurement shall be submitted via the
ePPR system using the “Information Exchange” function. Answers to all
questions can be viewed by all potential tenderers.

15. Annexes

Annex 1 “Technical Requirements” (with an unofficial translation into
Ukrainian).

Annex 2 “Draft Procurement Contract” (with an unofficial translation
into Ukrainian).

Annex 3 “Application Form” (with an unofficial translation into
Ukrainian).

[1] In accordance with Article 3 of the Framework Agreement between the
Government of Ukraine and the Commission of the European Communities of
12 December 2006 (ratified by the Law of Ukraine of 03 September 2008
No. 360-VI): "Measures financed in whole or in part by the Community
shall not be subject to taxes, duties or other charges of a similar
nature".

[2] In accordance with Article 3 of the Framework Agreement between the
Government of Ukraine and the Commission of the European Communities of
12 December 2006 (ratified by the Law of Ukraine of 03 September 2008
No. 360-VI): "Measures financed in whole or in part by the Community
shall not be subject to taxes, duties or other charges of a similar
nature".
